By the end of this video, you're going
to know exactly how to build your own AI
operating system, even if you've never
even opened up Cloud Code before or some
sort of tool like that. I'm even going
to be giving you guys for completely
free the entire setup guide. So,
literally all you have to do is download
that, follow along with what I do in the
video, and you'll be up and running. If
you guys don't know who I am, my name is
Nate. I've been deep into the AI game
for almost 2 years now. I scaled my last
AI automation agency to over $100,000 a
month, and then I sold it. I'm currently
now running one of the largest AI
communities in the world. We just hit
350,000 members and this is a free
community. I also run this YouTube
channel and a lot of you guys have been
asking me how I upload so many videos
and how I stay consistent. It's because
of my AI operating system and I want to
give you guys access to the exact same
thing that I use. So, let's not waste
any time and just get straight into this
one. I'm super pumped. Here we go. So,
first of all, like what is an operating
system? The first thing you might think
of is like, okay, my Mac OS or my
Windows iOS or my Apple iPhone iOS. It's
basically the layer between you and your
computer or your phone. It's where
everything lives. It it has your files,
your apps, your contacts, you know, it's
the screen that you're looking at. And
it's not really something that you think
about too much because it just works and
it lives there all the time. But now
we're getting into this world where AI
is taking over everything and it's
seeping into everything. And now that I
have an operating system inside of cloud
code, it is my OS, but now it has agents
on top of it. It has intelligence on top
of it. So, I'm really not exaggerating
when I say that I could spend an entire
workday with just cloud code open and I
could still do everything I need to and
I would still be more productive than
people that are clicking around in all
of the different apps. So, when we add
intelligence on top of our operating
system, we have an AI that can see all
of our files, all of our communication,
everything important going on in the
business. And not only can it see it,
but it can also interact with it. And
not only can it interact with it, but it
can also remember it better than you can
because you're a human and you use a
brain and you forget things. But the AI
not only has better memory, but it can
pull things from the exact source and it
can find it quicker than you can. Think
about how much time you've spent on work
about work, which is basically just the
idea of searching for things. Your
coworker drops you a file. You forget if
that was in Slack or an email. You're
looking for an old Google sheet that you
knew you were working on last month, but
now you can't find it because you worked
on 15 more since then. But AI could find
that instantly and grab it for you
because it has all of the context, it
has all of the connections, it has all
of the capabilities, and it has the
right cadence. So the combination of
those four C's is everything that you
need really to manage your business and
you can get it to the point where it
truly runs in the background for you.
Now you guys have heard me say Cloud
Code and obviously there's some other
tools that we're going to be talking
about today. But what's really important
in this space is that you're building
things to be tool agnostic because the
tools change every 6 months. Those of
you guys that have been with me for a
long time on this channel, you know that
last year I was all in on Naden and I've
made the full pivot to cla code because
I've realized I'm just way more
productive with cloud code. I really
don't think that I could have built this
sort of AI operating system in nodn. I
just don't think I could have the way
that I can do it in cloud code. Models
would be replaced. API endpoints might
be deprecated. SDKs might be deprecated.
Things will just happen. But we're going
to be building this in a way that is
very futurep proof because I'm going to
change the way that you think. I'm going
to change the way that you decide how to
do things. I'm going to change the way
that you build this AIOS so it can
survive whatever happens. Just
yesterday, I took my AIOS and I moved it
over to Codeex just to make sure that
everything was good. and it took Codex
about 2 minutes to get adjusted. And now
I have two different AIOS's, Cloud Code
and Codeex. And if I need to put it in
anti-gravity or if I need to throw it
into the the other new kit on the block,
I can do so. So I'm going to be teaching
you the durable layer that sits
underneath all these tools and all these
different buzzwords. Okay. So there's
two main frameworks that we're going to
be talking about today. The first one is
more of a highlevel framework around the
way that I think about AI, and it's
called the three M's of AI. We've got
the mindset, the method, and the
machine. All right. So, here is my three
M's doc that I'm going to be reading
over today. I'm not going to read every
single word because that would take too
long, but I will drop this doc in my
free school community. The link is down
in the description. I have all of the
other resources that I've ever shared on
YouTube in there as well for free. So,
if you want to check it out in deeper,
go there. But I wanted to spend some
time here because the mindset and all of
these frameworks I built out in a way
that it's really important for you to
think about not only when you're setting
up your AIOS, but also as you use it
every day and also as you scale it up
and also as you start to, you know,
bring it into other areas of your
business because right now we're
focusing on you personally, but now that
you've got this set up, your business is
set up better to be more AI ready and
your employees and your co-workers are
as well. So it's really important. So
there's three habits I wanted to touch
on. The first one is the default shift.
basically the idea of you know before
you do any task just ask yourself how
could AI do this or at least how could
AI do 30% of it because the truth is AI
is not going to do everything 100% it
might be able to do 75 or 50% but that's
still a huge win and that is a
productivity gain so here's a real
example the other day I needed to update
over 300 YouTube video description
tracking links and the old me would have
just been like man this sucks but I just
have to do it and I would have manually
clicked on each video, changed the link,
and then clicked in the next video and
just done that. Probably would have
taken me an hour. But the new me, my
default is, okay, I don't want to do
that manually. Let me just brainstorm
with cloud code and let me figure out
how do I actually make that happen?
Whether that's an API or whether that's
an MCP or whether that is maybe even
having to just do a browser automation
script. But the point is, my default
shift is so stubborn now where if
anything sounds boring or repetitive,
I'm not going to do it. I'm going to use
my AIOS to do it. That's habit number
one. Habit number two is the function
breakdown. Understanding that your role
is a set of functions. Everything you do
is broken into a tiny task and you can
just automate one piece of that at a
time. So an example, okay, if I had to
think about how can I automate an entire
YouTube video. That's a very tall task.
But break down the pieces that go into a
YouTube video. Ideation is usually step
one. And then you've got your scripting
or you know your building or your your
your slide creation. And then you've got
packaging titles and thumbnails. And
you've got descriptions. and you've got,
you know, comment replies, that is a
huge job. But when you break that into
little things, oh, I can definitely
automate ideiation or at least 95% of
it. I can definitely automate scripting.
I can definitely automate the slide deck
creations for my videos. And when you
have that mindset of just breaking it
into little pieces, baby steps, it
becomes way more achievable. So, in this
example, if this is the full flow of
automating a YouTube video, you just
have all these little chunks. And as you
slowly over time automate more and more
chunks, you get to a place where you're,
you know, now you've automated like 80%
of a YouTube video. And each of these
chunks is repeatable. So maybe this is
like the, you know, slide deck chunk.
Okay. What if we have a different
process? Let's just say we're now doing
like, you know, we're doing like meeting
prep or something. Well, guess what? We
can go ahead and grab this chunk and
just move it over here and we can just
fit this into this puzzle wherever it
goes. So all of these little chunks and
baby steps that you're taking are
reusable and that mindset shift is very
important to have. And then habit number
three, we've got the curiosity rule.
Never accept AI output without asking
why. Treat AI as a mentor,
[clears throat] not a vending machine.
There's basically this idea of dark code
because so many people nowadays are
using AI to write code, which means they
don't truly understand what each line or
each block of code is doing. And not
that you have to be able to read Python
or whatever it is, but it is very
important to at least understand why did
you build this? And if X happened, what
would happen to the code? You know what
I mean? So the whole idea of being
curious is asking those sorts of
questions. Why did you design it this
way? What happens if someone, you know,
submits an invoice that's empty and this
code is supposed to handle filled out
invoices? And the other piece of
curiosity is if you don't know if
something's possible to be automated or
automated with AI, then just ask. Okay,
so moving on to method. This is really
really important, but we're going to
come back to this a little bit later
once we've kind of, you know, got
everything set up. But this basically
just talks about, okay, how do you
actually decide what's worth automating
and how much of it you automate? So,
there's some more information here about
that kind of stuff. And then the last M
stands for machine, and this once again
gets a little bit more technical. All of
this you guys will be able to dive into
later, but we will revisit some of the
stuff later on in this course. So, those
are the three M's. Um, a couple of the
key highlights that we already hit on.
It's never binary. The question is never
will AI do this for me. The question is
to what extent can I leverage AI here?
30% 60%, maybe it's zero, but it's very
unlikely that it's zero. Every task on
your plate has a leverage percentage.
You just have to find it. And mindset
isn't motivation. It's the lens that
finds the percentage. The other one is
treat AI as a mentor, not a vending
machine. Vending machines take a coin
and they give you something. But mentors
ask you questions. They push you back.
They make you sharper. They encourage
you. They give you ideas. And that is
the relationship that you want to have
with AI, not a vending machine. And
then, of course, we just talked about
how your job is essentially a tree of
tasks. And thinking about it like that
makes big, vague, overwhelming ideas
more realistic. So, another thing that's
really important from the 3M is that
productivity drops before it climbs. And
I don't want you to get overwhelmed and
just give up because you think it's too
hard to build an AIOS. It is not. So,
think about this. a solo operator and
they are trying to build an AIOS and
they're doing a 30-day sprint. This bar
basically represents like productivity,
right? So baseline, they are not using
AI hardly at all. They're being maybe
60% productive. Day three, they're
slowing down. They're noticeably getting
out less output because they're trying
to adjust to this new way of living. And
that's just how things work. Whenever
you make a change, you typically are
going to expect a 20% decrease in
productivity. And let me actually just
draw this out because I think it'll be
easier to demonstrate. So if we just
real quick go and draw a graph, then let
me show you what this means.
So let's say your business is operating
like this. [clears throat] This is a
steady line. Now if you decide to make a
change, you have to basically be okay
with the fact that this change might
decrease your productivity by about 20%.
So this is the, you know, sort of like
negative 20% gap you're seeing.
The question is, is this change worth
it? Will this change ultimately result
in more than a 20% dip? Because up here,
what you might be getting with an AIOS
is a 50% gain. So is the dip in 20%
worth the 50% upside? Yes, because
you're getting an additional 30%. Now,
on top of that, you also have the idea
of a learning curve. So, if I can just
go ahead and draw another little graph
real quick. And why am I being so
boring? Let's actually use a color. So,
the learning curve. People think that
learning is linear like this. And it's
just really not. Learning is
exponential. But what does that mean? It
means that when you start to learn
something new, you basically are kind of
below the linear line that you would
have been if you were just doing it the
old way. But because of the
exponentialness,
the exponential nature of learning, you
will pass that mark. It's just that it's
going to take you a few days to get
there. Maybe this is day one, maybe this
is day two, and maybe on day three, you
break even. But by day four and five,
you're way ahead of where you would have
been if you just kept doing it the same
way. So this gap is where people sort of
tend to give up or get overwhelmed
because they realize they're being less
productive. So those two things are
really important for you guys to
understand. Don't give up. You get
through it and then you start to see all
the gains and now you are being 5x more
productive, 10x more productive. I've
seen that with myself. I've seen that
with my team. It is an incredible thing
to actually witness and by the time
you're 2 weeks in, you won't even
recognize how productive you're being
and you can't even imagine if someone
took away your AIOS and you had to go
back to the old way. You would want to
cry. Okay, so now let's get on to the
second sort of framework here. And this
one is called the four C's. This one is
more specific to the way that we set up
our operating system. And this is kind
of the way that I'm calling the AISOS,
the AI automation society operating
system because we've basically just been
getting everyone to do it in this way.
And it is the AI automation society way.
So what goes into that? Four C's. We've
got context. What AI knows about you,
your team, your tools, your voice, your
business, your money. And then we've got
connections. So what data can it reach?
Cloud code on its own can't really do
anything besides search the web. But
your business data, your especially the
important business data you need isn't
available publicly on the web. So you
have to give it connections to all of
your different tools and all of the
different databases where your actual
important data lives. And then we have
capabilities. What can it produce? What
can it do with that data? You know, it
has to be useful in some way, not just a
knowledge source. And then we have the
final C, cadence, when it acts on its
own while you sleep and while your
laptop is closed. And all of these build
on top of each other. You can't have
cadence without connections. You can't
have capability without context. And you
have to go in this order. 1 2 3 4. And
I'm going to show you guys your exact
path to get from 1 to four today. The
whole idea is that if you opened up a
new Claude chat right now or a new Cloud
Code session, how much would it know
about you if you asked a question? So
test it. Ask a question and see does
this answer like a teammate or like an
executive assistant or is this answering
like a stranger who just met you 5
seconds ago. So here is the four C's of
an AIOS. And once again, the important
part is that tools change every 6
months, maybe even quicker. But the
platform that we're doing right now and
the foundation that we're building is
going to be able to move across whatever
happens. And I think you guys understand
what we're getting at here. We're
setting up our context, which is
basically the brain, making sure it
knows our business. We're setting up the
connections to make sure that it can
touch things, whether that is an MCP or
an API or a CLI or, you know, whatever
it is. We're setting up the connections.
The capabilities is that it actually
knows how to do things. You know, you
have a bunch of SOPs probably already in
your business. Can you now give those
SOPs to your operating system so that it
can do it just as well and just as
consistently as one of your employees
does it manually right now? And then of
course the cadence where it gets really
really cool and it starts to feel more
like a 24/7 AI employee for you. And
those are the four C's of our AI
operating system. And we're going to be
talking about how you can actually test
if you have those things in place. And
we have a skill inside of the um
template I'm going to give you guys
where you can run an audit and just make
sure that you're good and you can find
opportunities to add more connections or
add more capabilities and things like
that. But for example, if you have
connections into your calendar and your
tasks and your CRM and your inbox, it
should be able to grab all that and help
you out. You could ask like, "Hey,
what's on my plate today?" or "Help me
plan my day." And it would be able to
read through everything, look at your
calendar, and help you block off things
based on your priorities and based on
maybe previous conversations you've been
having in that week. And with the
capabilities instead of having to drop
in like a full, you know, two paragraph
brief for what you want, you could
basically say, "Hey, we need a quarter
three report and I need it by the end of
the day and it will be able to go do
that because it understands your SOP for
that. It understands all the business
data and there's going to be less
follow-up, less back and forth, less of
you micromanaging it." So, here's a
quick snapshot of the pillars, what you
might want to do to test, what you would
see, and kind of be like, "Okay, this is
good. This was a pass." and what you
might see and be like, "Okay, this
failed. I need to do some work on this
pillar." So, hopefully this is all
starting to click. I'm not trying to
hammer this home too hard, but context,
connections, capabilities, and cadence.
Okay, so now you have to actually start
to get this into cloud code somehow. So,
what I want you guys to do is think
about these different buckets, right?
Um, there's actually kind of seven tier
one buckets, but they kind of fit into
these groups of ops, comms, data, and
planning. So, what I want you to do
right now is I want you to grab a piece
of paper or a Google doc or come into an
Excal or a mirrorboard or whatever you
want to do and just kind of layer out
these seven things. We've got revenue,
customer, calendar, comms, tasks,
meetings, and knowledge. And the cloud
code template I'm going to give you guys
is trained on these seven things. But
before we get into that, I think it's
really important to just kind of sketch
this out on paper. you know, do it in
your head first before you jump into the
whole onboarding of the AIOS or you
might forget some stuff. And if you do
forget some stuff, it's absolutely no
big deal. Like I said, I've been playing
around with so many different AI
operating systems over the past multiple
months and I've changed it a lot. I've
evolved it a lot. I've had to restart
before and it's kind of funny because,
you know, I think the term AI operating
system is very new and it's kind of
ambiguous and a lot of people probably
have a different idea of what that
means. Um, you know, I think first I
built out an executive assistant and the
executive assistant has kind of evolved
into my AIOS, but a lot of people have
also been throwing around the term like
second brain. And I think a second brain
is a very great start to building an
AIOS. So there's a lot of these things
that you might have heard and this is
just kind of my take on an AIOS, which
is why I'm calling it the AIS OS. So
anyways, you sit here and these are the
tier one things that you should be
thinking about as far as on your
month-to-month, what are you looking at?
What are you tracking? We're tracking
revenue. We're, you know, communicating
with customers. We're making sure
they're happy. We're obviously having
things come through on our calendar.
We're communicating with people both
internally or on meetings down here or
externally. And we have project
management. We have tasks. We have
things to prioritize. and we have
general knowledge. So when you start to
think of each of these layers, it helps
you figure out the connections you may
need and the tools you may need. So
that's what this phase is for. That's
what this section is about. So revenue,
let me just show you guys what I wrote
here. I wrote school, Stripe, and
QuickBooks. These are the places that
I'm actually checking pretty frequently
to see how many members we have, to see,
you know, how much revenue we're
growing, to see our promotions, to see
how those are working, to look at
QuickBooks, to look at our P&L, to look
at our expenses. These are the places
where I'm frequently checking to make
sure my business is doing well, that we
have runway, and that we're growing
healthily. And then you have customer,
you know, what does that look like for
you? Do you have a SAS product? Do you
have like a brickandmortar? Where do you
have your CRM? Where do you have
information about your customer, and
where do you provide them value? So, for
me, I thought of the two biggest ones
that I'm checking, which are school and
YouTube. And so, as you start to think
about these different sources, these are
where your connections are going to come
from. And you want to start to think
about how can I make sure that cloud
code can talk to school, Stripe, and
Quickbooks or School and YouTube. Every
single one of these tools will have some
way to connect the data to an AI system.
We're living in 2026. It's possible.
Some might have MCP servers, some might
not. Some have API documentation, some
may not. But there is a way. I promise
you. Even if you have to spin up a
browser automation, which I've made a
video about before, you can get through
in some way. Okay, so let's keep going.
Calendar. This one was pretty easy for
me. Basically, just Google Workspace. My
Google calendar, everything lives there.
Even if people book in through
Calendarly, even if someone, you know,
does something on my ClickUp calendar,
it all syncs to Google Workspace. So,
all I need there is one simple tool. For
comms, I have two main ones, I guess
three, actually, that I thought of. So,
obviously Google Workspace for my email.
I've got ClickUp, which is where we do
pretty much all of our internal
communication. And then I've got Slack,
which is where we communicate with a lot
of our vendors because sometimes they
throw us in their Slack space or, you
know, whatever the case is. So I need to
make sure that my AIOS has visibility
into all of those sources so it can pull
data from there if it needs to. And then
we have tasks. So pretty much our
project management mainly lives in
ClickUp for our internal projects, our
internal tasks, our deadlines, our
prioritization. And then we also have
notion because sometimes we're working
with vendors on different projects and
things like that and maybe they're using
notion which is pretty common. And as
you're going through and filling this
out, you don't have to get it all
perfect on the first try. You're
probably going to forget a few things,
but that's okay. You know, start small.
Start with the most important core
things that you use the most, and then
you build up from there. So, meetings, I
use Fireflies at the moment, and that's
really important for my cloud code to be
able to look at those transcripts and
see what meetings I've had because it
can help me, like I said, plan things or
respond to an email better or make
action items better. And then finally,
we have knowledge. And this one might
seem a little bit more ambiguous, but
just think about where else is important
information that doesn't live in these
sources that you've already talked
about. And so for me, I was thinking,
okay, YouTube transcripts, because up
here, I was mainly thinking of like, you
know, my YouTube comments or my
analytics, but right here, I'm thinking,
okay, YouTube transcripts. I want all of
my knowledge from YouTube videos in
Cloud Code somehow. And then I thought
about Google Workspace, of course,
because I have tons of Google Docs, tons
of Google Sheets, tons of just like
things in my drive, even videos that I
want Cloud Code to be able to access.
And then local files, which is pretty
easy. You don't really have to do
anything to connect that, but I've got a
ton of local files that Cloud Code has
helped me organize and move around and
sometimes even send to people. Now, as
you start to look at these different
tools, think about this. You know, I
joke around with people that if someone
wanted to get a hold of me or if someone
had a question for me, they would
actually be better off asking my
executive assistant because my executive
assistant is also linked to all of these
sources of data. So, it has all the
knowledge I have, but it has a perfect
memory and it never sleeps. So, if you
can look at these sources and be like,
"Okay, cool. If someone was able to talk
to an AI agent that had all of this data
and it could answer the majority of
questions that my team or that you know
you know some a customer might ask me
then we're probably in a good spot to go
ahead and get started. And if there's
other things that come to mind when you
sort of do that you know mental test
then just chuck it down into the right
category. And once you get to a point
where you feel good about what these
tools look like now what we need to do
is we're going to get started building
our AIOS. So, the very first thing that
I want you to do is go to my free school
community. The link for that is down in
the description and join this community.
Your membership will get approved as
quick as we can. And then once you're in
here, you're going to go to the
classroom and you're going to go to all
YouTube resources and you're going to go
in there and download the different
resources for this video. You're going
to need a GitHub repo and you're going
to need, you know, those other docs that
I talked about, but you need that to get
started. And then we're going to be
doing this inside of Claude Code. And
the way that I like to use Claude Code
is in VS Code. You could also do the
desktop app if you choose, but pretty
much in all my YouTube videos, I like to
use VS Code and that's what we're going
to be using in today's tutorial. It's
completely free to download. It is just
an IDE and then we're able to open up
Claude Code inside of it. So, I'm using
VS Code today. Google Visual Studio
Code, download it, and then the next
step is you need to be able to connect
your Claude accounts. And you do have to
have a paid Claude account in order to
use Claude Code. You can do the 17 bucks
a month plan or I guess it would be 20
on monthly, but you can start here. And
if you're hitting your limits really
quick and you want to scale up, then
scale up. It's not a big deal. All
right. So once you've done those two
things, you're going to open up Visual
Studio Code. And it will look like this.
Now, what you're going to do first is
you're going to install the Cloud Code
extension. So on this lefth hand side,
go over to this button, click on
extensions, and then you're going to
type in Claude Code. And once that pops
up right here, you're basically just
going to install this extension. Once
you install that, it's going to prompt
you to log in. And that is where you'll
log in with your paid Claude
subscription. Once you get that set up,
you're going to see this button in the
top right, which looks like Anthropics
logo. And you're going to go ahead and
just click on that. And what that does
is it opens up this little Claude code
agent. And this is very similar to the
way you would chat with Claude or Chatbt
on the web. You know, you have a little
chat box here. You can say hello. And
this is going to call on Claude Opus 4.7
and it's going to respond to you. It's
super simple. Now, what we have to do is
we have to open up a project to work in.
So, open up your file explorer, go to
your desktop or your documents or
wherever you want to have your AIOS main
folder and just create a new folder.
Just call it AIOS or, you know, whatever
you want and create that folder on your
file explorer. And then you're going to
go up to this top left hand explorer
button and it says you have not yet
opened a folder. What you have to do is
just open up that folder. And that is
basically our working directory or the
project that we're working in right now.
So, you're going to click on open folder
and open up that one that you just
created. So, I just opened up one called
AIOS demo. Yours should look exactly
like this because there's nothing yet in
that folder. So, all I'm going to do now
is I'm going to close out of everything.
I'm going to double click, open up Cloud
Code, and now what we have is on the
right hand side, we have our agent, and
on the lefth hand side, we have our
files. So, right now, obviously, there
are no files in here. Now, what you're
going to do next is you're going to go
to my free school community, and you're
going to grab the link to the GitHub
repo, and you're going to grab the URL
from it. And then you're just going to
message Claude and you're going to say,
"Hey, can you clone this GitHub repo
into this current project? It's going to
go ahead and search the web for it. And
then it is going to pull it in and
you're going to see a bunch of folders
and files pop up on the lefth hand side
right here. It's going to ask you if
it's okay to allow this command. And
you're just going to go ahead and click
yes, allow get clone." And what you can
see is now that it has been cloned, we
have a bunch of these different files
over here. So you can see that we have
acloud folder, we have a archives
folder, we have a context folder,
decisions folder, a references folder,
and then we have all of these other
files right down here. So let me real
quick take a second to familiarize with
what we're actually looking at. The
dotcloud folder, this is kind of like
your overall project
guide, I guess, claude. What's in here
right now is we only have a folder
inside of this called skills, which is
why we have this little breakdown. And
this is basically where all of our
skills are going to go in the future.
Now, what is a skill? A skill is
basically just something that gives you
six arms. No, I'm just kidding. But it's
basically a file inside of Cloud Code
and it's like a recipe. So, let's say
you had a skill for building a LinkedIn
post or writing a LinkedIn post. What do
you do every single time you want to
write a LinkedIn post? Maybe you do
research and then you generate a graphic
and then you write the copy and then you
review it and then you post it. So, how
annoying would that be to explain every
single time to Claude Code that you want
to do those five steps when instead you
could just package those into a skill
and then say, "Hey, Claude Code, write
me a LinkedIn post." It would read your
skill document and then it would go do
everything. So, it gives you more
predictable outputs, higher quality. So
thinking of it like a recipe is a really
good analogy because also let's say you
build this skill or recipe and it comes
out not the way you want it and then you
realize okay next time we do this I need
to add like one more egg so that the you
know brownies are cakeier or whatever
then you just update the skill say hey
instead of one egg do two eggs and then
next time you say hey run the skill it's
better so the skills will ever be
evolving if you want them to and it's
going to help out a lot so if we open up
this folder you can see that I already
have given you three skills in here we
We have one called audit. We have one
called level up. And we have one called
onboard. So in just a sec, we're going
to run the onboarding skill to get you
fully onboarded into this AIOS. But
let's take a look at what skills
actually are. So inside of the level up
folder, we have a skill.md. And this
skill.md, as you can see, is a very
simple markdown file that explains what
the skill does. We have a name, we have
a description, we have what the skill
does, we have what the skill does not.
And then we say like, okay, here's what
you do every time the user actually runs
the skill. Phase one is the interview.
Phase two is the method interview. Phase
three is blah blah blah. It's basically
just an SOP. And what's really cool
about that is, let's say you have an SOP
for onboarding a client. You could give
Claude Code that SOP and give it the
right connections to onboard a client
and say, "Hey, can you turn this SOP
into a skill?" And then boom, you've
essentially got an automation for
onboarding a client. But anyways, I
don't want to get ahead of myself or
start to confuse you guys. Let's just
actually keep going down real quick.
What else we've got in this project? So,
we've got an archives folder, which is
where Claude will put old documents or
things that you don't need. We've got a
context folder, which is where Claude
will put different context files about
your business, about you personally,
about maybe the way that you like to
communicate. Everything that it needs to
know about you and your business, it can
start to organize inside of this context
folder. We've got decisions. It's going
to keep a log of important things that
you guys have decided to do together.
And then we've got references. And this
one right here has a markdown file about
the 3 M of AI. Now, this is a really
good place to start. And I built this
template so it's kind of hackable. Over
time, what's going to happen is you're
going to build more and more files.
There's going to be more folders.
There's going to be different things.
You might have projects. You might have
quarterly folders. That can evolve and
that is completely fine. The important
thing is that Claude understands what
the folders mean and what type of stuff
goes in them. And that kind of stuff
gets defined in a file called the
claw.md. The claw.mmd is basically the
master prompt for this project. So right
here it says, okay, blank's name
operating system. You are Nate's
personal AIOS. Your job is to be their
thought partner. Help them think,
decide, and ship faster on this
priority. And there's a lot of
placeholders here that are going to get
filled out as you start to grow this
project. Now you can see there's a
section here called your skills which is
important because it has to understand
when to invoke what skill and then we
also have where things live. So context
references connections and as you add
more folders and files on the lefth hand
side you're going to just want to make
sure that your claused file is getting
updated as well so that claude actually
understands where things live. So
there's more information in the cloudmd
file. I'm not going to read it all right
now. And this is another one of those
files that evolves every day. My clawmd
file in my project has probably been
updated two times a day for the past
multiple months because I keep adding
new things or I keep taking things away.
So none of this is set in stone. Don't
stress yourself out. As you learn more,
your project is going to grow and learn
more, too. And then what else we have
down here are just a few other markdown
files that are important. You know,
we've got some connections here that are
going to get filled out. We've got some
expansions that can help you figure out,
okay, once you finish Nate's tutorial
that you're watching right now, what do
you do from here? How do you make this
better? So, those are just some other
files that are in here, and I don't want
to read all of them out, but hopefully
that little overview gave you at least a
bit more comfort of what you're looking
at. So, now let's actually go ahead and
get onboarded. So, I'm just going to say
in natural language, all right, I just
cloned this repo. I want to set up my AI
operating system. My name is Nate. Can
you help me get onboarded into this
project? And if you say anything like
that, it should understand to invoke
that onboard skill. And the cool thing
about cloud code is you can basically
see what it's doing. So it said, "Okay,
I'm going to read the project's
onboarding doc to see how I can set you
up." And we can see that it's reading
things. You know, we can see the exact
files that it's actually reading. And
then it says, "Okay, welcome Nate. The
repo comes with an onboard skill that
does exactly this. It's a seven question
interview that scaffolds your day one
file set. Since the skill was just
cloned, let me read it and then I'll
walk you through it." So this is where
it starts that onboard questionnaire.
The first question is, "Who are you?
What do you sell and who do you sell it
to? So, keep in mind because I'm just
doing this as a demo for you guys, my
answers are going to be pretty short.
They're going to be kind of vague. But
for you, I would really spend some time
here and give it context. You know,
obviously it's not the end of the world
because you can you can continuously
iterate, but I would definitely spend
some time here and give it more than
just a couple sentences. Give it a few
paragraphs. And what makes it even
easier is if you use a voice dictation
tool. So, the one I use is linked in the
description. It's called Glido. You
might see that right here. I'm actually
using Whisper Flow, but I have fully
switched over to Glido and I am an
official member of the GLO team now. I
just believe in that product much more.
It's faster, it's private, it's way more
agentic. So, if you guys are looking for
a voice tool and you want to support,
then definitely check out Glido. Windows
support is coming very soon. All right,
so my name is Nate. I run a AI
automation YouTube channel. I've got a
free community and a paid community and
we're working on building out some other
different types of programs. And um our
offer is basically just we're teaching
people how to learn AI automation
regardless of their background. We're
helping them figure out how they can get
a career or we're helping them figure
out how they can get clients. And that
is pretty much the type of person that
we're currently appealing to. Okay. So
that is the short paragraph that I'm
going with for now. Now it's going to
save that to the intake file, which is
great. And that is actually this one
right here. So as you answer, it's going
to save these answers right here. So as
you can see, question one was who are
you? and this is what I answered with
pretty much right here. And then it's
going to keep going down the list and
asking us these questions and it's going
to keep filling in our answers here so
it can reference them later. So anyways,
let's keep going. Question two is to
paste one or two things that you've
written recently. Don't edit them. Paste
them verbatim. And the reason it's doing
this is because it wants to understand
the way that you speak, the way that you
talk. So I'm going to go grab one
LinkedIn post and one school post and
I'm going to drop them right here in the
chat. All right. So I'm dropping in
those two posts. Now, think about as far
as like the way that you would want this
to understand your writing styles. If
you wanted it to just be LinkedIn, then
you should say, "Hey, these are both
LinkedIn posts." Or maybe you wanted to
give it, hey, these are two emails I
sent to clients. These are two emails I
sent to my team. I have different types
of communication based on who I'm
talking to. And that's completely fine.
You can give it that information. The
more the marrier. Anyways, question
three. What are your two to three
biggest priorities for the next 90 days?
So, I'm just going to make up a few
different priorities here. you would
obviously give whatever you're really
working on for Q3 or for Q2. What is
your current sprint? What are some
milestones that you're currently working
towards? So, I don't think that you guys
really want to watch me answer these
next couple questions. So, go ahead and
finish all seven and then I'll meet you
back here when you're done with that.
Okay. So, it now comes back and it says
that day one is done. Your AIOS knows
who you are, what you sell, what matters
this quarter, and how you sound. So,
today you could say, "What should I
focus on this week?" Actually, let's
just try what should I focus on this
week and we'll see what it says.
Tomorrow it says you can pick one tool
from your connections and wire it up.
And then on day seven, you can run your
audit to see your four C's score. So, if
you really want to take it slow, you can
do that. But, we're going to keep moving
forward and we're going to start setting
up some other things as well today. But,
as I ask it, what should I focus on this
week? Obviously, it knows because we
just had this conversation. But what's
important is that it's pulling from
these files. It's in the context folder
right here. And we have these new three
files that were added. We have about
business, we have about me, and we have
priorities. And it just read from those
two together in order to see that we
have AIS live on July 11th. We have our
new program in development and team
management and making sure that we can
keep tasks on track and everything like
that. And then it says, if I had to pick
one thing for Monday, it would be the
AIS live speaker lineup and where could
the default shift apply here? to what
extent could AI be leveraged on this
task? So, as you guys see, like I said,
I've trained this thing to be your
mentor. Not just saying, okay, here's
what you should do or here's what I
found, but trying to train your mindset
to actually shift. So, you're starting
to think about this exact type of
question and multiple other questions
that come with using an AIOS first.
Remember, your goal should be, how can I
do everything I need to do right in
here, right in VS Code. I know I have my
Chrome tab open right here. So, if I
needed to go in here and click around, I
could. But how could I try to be as
productive as possible just in this
interface? That is the default shift.
It's the whole cliche of, you know, like
you only get out what you put in. So,
um, yeah, if you don't really commit to
using this, then you're not going to
feel the ROI of the AIOS. Let's take a
quick peek inside of these. These are
all just markdown files. So like about
business, if I open this up, we can see
that it has access to our offer, our
ICP, it has our services, and it has our
revenue model. This is obviously very
very vague at the moment. It's very
minimal, but remember over time as you
make decisions, as you launch new
offers, as you, you know, make pivots,
this will continue to evolve. Same thing
with the about me doc. So right here, it
just knows a little bit about me and
about some of my top pains. But I could
also give it some more actual context
about me. I could tell it my age, where
I went to college, you know, what I like
to do in my free time. I can give it
more data here. And then of course we
have the priorities doc. And this one
will always evolve. I think the best way
to be doing this would be at the start
of every quarter. You know, our
business, we work in quarterly sprints.
Not everyone does that. Maybe you work
in two week sprints or maybe you work
in, you know, yearly sprints, whatever
it is. But find a cadence that you want
to give to your AIOS so it knows the big
milestones that you're working towards.
And it makes it really easy because for
us inside of ClickUp is where we have
all of our milestones for that quarter.
So really the better way for me to tell
my AIOS about my priorities would just
be to say hey go to the ClickUp
workspace called you know Q2 OTAAS and
just read everything and those are our
priorities for this quarter. And that's
where you guys are starting to
understand the value of the connections
because right now this thing only knows
what we've told it because you know
that's the source of truth for it. But
once we start to connect it to all of
these things that we kind of sketched
out earlier, once we connect it to
these, it won't have to keep asking us
questions because the default will be
instead of asking Nate for answers, I
will just go look in school or I will
just go pull the data from QuickBooks or
I will just use my GWS tool. That is
what it's able to start to do. All
right, so let's say that's where we're
at now. I'm going to go ahead and do a
slashclear which basically just clears
the conversation and I'm going to
pretend it's the next day. Okay. Hey,
good morning. It's day two and I now
want to start to actually connect you to
things. You know, what are the most
important things that I could start to
connect you to so you can get more
context about my business and we can
just start to grow your database of data
that you get to access. Now, if you
already know, okay, like ClickUp,
Google, Fireflies, those are the three
most important things, then you can
start wiring that up right now. But you
can also have a conversation with it.
You can be curious. You can ask it what
it thinks. and you can start to, you
know, just kind of layer on top of each
other the different connections.
Now, when you think about an actual
connection, if you're not technical,
don't worry about it because all that
happens is you say, "Hey, I have
ClickUp. Go do research for me and
figure out how to connect ClickUp." And
it just does it. The one thing you will
probably have to do is you're going to
be the one that has to go grab the API
key and you're going to have to give
Cloud Code the API key so it can
actually access your stuff. It's
basically just a password. So what this
came back and said, "Good morning, day
two. This is the exact right move. I
looked at your connections doc and I can
see your priority order." So here is the
three things that you can do together.
ClickUp for tasks, ownerships and
deadlines and DMs and channels.
Fireflies for all of your meetings and
then Slack to get communication from
other vendors. Now I actually disagree
with this priority probably because I
didn't give it enough insight. I think
ClickUp is definitely number one for us
and then for me number two would be like
my Google workspace. But anyways, let's
just start with ClickUp so I can show
you guys how that works. It is a massive
tool for us obviously. All right. So,
one other thing that you can think about
when it comes to ClickUp or you Gmail or
Slack or whatever it is that you're
giving your agent access to is that you
don't have to give it access as you
because your account probably has full
permissions. It can see every space. It
can download all the data. it can write
whatever it wants. In some cases, you
probably do want that, but in other
cases, why not just create an account
for your AIOS? What I did here is I
created an account called Up AI. And now
I give my uppai API key to cloud code
rather than my own personal API key. And
you can do this for all of your other
tools as well. Maybe you want to get a
separate API key inside of QuickBooks
and you only want to give it read
access. You know, you can do certain
things like that to restrict the ability
of the AI to make sure you don't have a
situation like I forget which company it
was, but I just saw some news article
where an AI deleted like a really big
database and you just want to make sure
that that doesn't happen. So, per API
key or per account, you can set
different permissions. So, think about
that. And what else that means is if you
have a bunch of different AI agents,
each of them can have their own API key.
and if they're spending money on that
platform, you know, whether that's a
research platform or just an AI model,
you can then see which automation is
using how much money. So, think about
the way that you separate out your
permissions and your keys. But anyways,
this is my uppi account of ClickUp. What
I would do here is I would go to um up
here in the settings. I would click on
settings. I would go to the ClickUp API.
And now I would just copy this token.
And this is what I need to be able to
give to Claude Code. And once it does
that, it can access ClickUp. Now,
obviously before that, it's going to
say, "Hey, can we connect the ClickUp
MCP or, you know, how do you want to do
this?" A lot of these AI models are
going to want to default to using an MCP
server. As you can see here, how would
you prefer to wire it? MCP server. It's
the fastest if one exists for ClickUp. I
don't like using MCP servers because
basically what happens when you do that
is it gives you access to every single
function and every single endpoint
that's possible, but you always don't
need all of them. And also having a
bunch of MCP servers loaded into your
project actually eats more tokens. So
what I prefer to do is API endpoints. So
here's what I'm going to say and this is
what you should probably say to all of
the different integrations that you need
to connect. I want to use ClickUp's API
because it's more token efficient than
having the MCP server. So what I want
you to do is do research on ClickUp's
documentation about all the different
API endpoints. it would probably be
helpful for you to set up a reference
guide, a markdown file inside of this
project that has all of the endpoints
stored so that later if you need to use
a different one, you don't have to go do
research again. You can just reference
that file. But anyways, go do research
about that and then create me av file
and I will give you my ClickUp API key
in that file. So, let me just kind of
like translate what I meant by that.
It's going to look up the ClickUp API
documentation. So, if I search ClickUp
API documentation, it's basically going
to find all of this and it's going to
look through it because there's
different endpoints to get a token or to
create a task comment or to, you know,
make a list or to remove things from a
list. Every single function has a
different endpoint. And every single
time that Claude would need to do
something in ClickUp, it would have to
come research it. But instead, if we
just let it research all of this once
and then save it as a markdown file,
markdown's really easy for AIs to read.
It's also very cheap for them to read.
So now we have our own sort of database
of every single possible ClickUp
function and we have that stored
locally. So that is the research that
Cloud Code is doing as we speak and it
is going to save that for later. Now
what is AENV file? The ENV file is
basically just a secret file, right? So
this is what it looks like. This is
where you're going to store all your
secrets. So we will input a ClickUp API
token and a team ID. Now the reason why
we have a dot is because it's aenv and
it gets excluded from anytime we do a
public push to a repo or anything like
that. So it basically just means that we
are protecting this API key. It's it's
much more secure for you to paste in
your API key into the ENV rather than
you know giving it in the chat history.
You know sometimes it might say hey you
know just drop in your API key and I'll
set it up. Don't do that. just tell it
to create the env with a placeholder and
then it's so simple for you to go into
ClickUp, copy this, and then you would
literally just paste it right here, hit
save, and now Cloud Code can use it. And
if you ever get confused about where you
find your API key or how any of this
works, just ask Cloud Code to do the
research, and it will figure it out for
you 99% of the time. Also, guys, I
realized that I switched over this mode
to bypass permissions. So, there's
basically different modes in Cloud Code.
What I like to do typically is start on
plan mode if I'm going to build like a
skill or I need help brainstorming. Um,
but if you're on edit automatically and
you're trying to do something like
research like you just saw, it might
stop constantly and say, "Hey, can I do
this web fetch? Can I do this? Can I do
this?" And if you get annoyed of that,
you can switch to auto mode or you can
also switch to bypass permissions. So
auto mode uses a little bit more tokens
because it basically uses an AI to
analyze what am I about to do? Is this
safe? If it's safe, I'm just going to go
ahead and do it. But if I'm doing
something like a delete or if I'm doing
something like a push or anything that
might be a little bit risky, then I'm
going to stop and ask Nate or I'm going
to stop and ask the user. Bypass
permissions just says, "Okay, you can go
do everything." I have never had an
issue with bypass permissions. It's it's
deleted things, sure, but only when I've
asked it to. But you do run that risk of
full autonomy. So, just wanted to at
least let you guys know about that. The
way that you can enable bypass
permissions is if you go to the settings
down here and you click on settings and
you type in claude and then you can see
right here allow dangerously skip
permissions. If you turn that on, you
should now be able to see this option.
But you could always just use auto if
you're scared and then eventually if you
feel more confident you can switch to
bypass. But that's why you might have
seen that down there. Okay. So it says
that ClickUp is wired. It says that we
have a full V2 reference. So if I come
into the references, we have a ClickUp
API markdown file. And if I look in
here, this is a very comprehensive doc.
It is pretty long. So if cloud code does
use this, it's going to have to read all
of these lines, but it has all the
endpoints. And now it has basically full
understanding of how to use ClickUp. So
let's go ahead and check it. It says, do
you want me to run a test per assenee
workload snapshot right now? It will see
who's holding what across all 17 people.
I'm just going to go ahead and say sure.
and we're going to see if it's able to
use my API key that I gave it, use the
team ID that I gave it, and use the
right endpoints to find that
information. And the cool thing is as
you're testing out these different
endpoints or these different skills, if
it hits a mistake, it's going to fix
itself. But what else is good about that
is it found an edge case because every
time that it fails, it learns and it can
update something. So if this fails, I'm
going to say, okay, update the API doc
so that next time you do this, it never
happens again. Or if you were if this
was running a skill right now, like
let's say we ran a skill called team
check-in, I would say, okay, can you go
update the skill with the issue that you
just ran into, how you fixed it, and to
make sure that you never ever run into
that issue ever again. So honestly,
think of a failure as a good thing
because it gave you more data about what
not to ever do again. Another one of
those super healthy Nate mindset shifts.
Okay, so I'm not going to show you
exactly what's on the screen right now.
I'm going to have like a blur over this
or a box over this because I don't want
you guys to know what I'm up to. But all
of this is legit. This is exactly what's
going on in our ClickUp. And at the end
of this, you guys can't see. I'll show
you this line, but it says the three
things worth doing. It gives me a number
one, which is definitely seems like I
should probably check up with this
person right now. We have number two and
number three, which all make sense in
the context of my business right now.
So, that is proof that that's working.
Let's do one more quick thing. I'm going
to go ahead and just do a /cle.
Actually, I'm just going to open up a
new tab and I'm going to say shoot Nate
a message in ClickUp. Actually, I don't
know why I'm not speaking. ClickUp and
just say, "Hey, YouTube. Making sure
that this is working." Okay, so this
will be interesting to see if it decides
to use a channel or if it decides to
just go ahead and DM me directly.
But what is it doing? It's reading the
connections doc and then it's reading
the ClickUp reference dock and then it
is going to shoot me off a message. Now,
there's one thing that I would say here
that you might want to consider is if
you have like a couple main API
endpoints that you hit, you probably
want to put those somewhere that makes a
little bit more sense. So, for example,
we don't want it to read every single
time that entire doc because that could
just waste tokens. But what's
interesting is, you know, let's take the
example of the team check-in. Whenever
we run the team check-in, we could say,
"Okay, when you ran that, what endpoints
did you use?" And it would say, "I used
endpoints X, Y, and Z." Okay, put
endpoints X, Y, and Z in the skill file.
So, you don't have to look at the full
API documentation whenever you want to
do that specific skill. So, I hope you
guys are starting to understand here why
it's a little bit difficult to give you
like a step-by-step playbook for setting
up your own AIOS because everyone runs
their business differently. Everyone has
different connections. But I'm trying to
give you guys the way that I think about
the, you know, the mindset of setting
this kind of stuff up. So anyways, it
decided to create me a task. So it
didn't completely understand what I
wanted. So in my ClickUp, my real Nate
ClickUp, not the UPAI version, I got a
task here and the task says, "Hey
YouTube, making sure this is working."
And it assigned the task to me. So it
misunderstood my request a little bit. I
was hoping it would send me an actual
DM, but we can see here that it was able
to create a task and assign it to me.
So, at least it understands that. And
really, what I was trying to prove to
you guys there is that it was able to
use a different endpoint as well. That
is ClickUp. Now, before we set up
another one and before we talk about
some other stuff, I wanted to show you
guys these skills that I have built in.
So, the first one is called audit. So,
I'm just going to go ahead and do /
audit to show you guys what this skill
actually does.
This is basically going to judge your
AIOS. It's going to look at the four
C's. So, context, connections,
capabilities, and cadence. And it's
going to tell you what you might be
missing, and it's going to tell you what
you need to set up. So, right here, it
says, "Okay, I'm running the four C's
audit. Let me scan the project
structure." And it's going to come back
with a grade. And this is really great
because if you're getting overwhelmed
with what you should be doing, just run/
audit and see where the gaps are and
kind of help plan out your next steps
from there. Okay, so April 30th audit,
we got 54.5 out of 100 and we're
currently, you know, we literally just
got this set up. So, honestly, I think
this is being pretty generous with
context. I mean, 18 out of 25, it could
definitely get a lot better.
Connections, we're at 16 out of 25. It
could get a ton better. So, maybe we
need to tweak this actual audit a little
bit because we only have one connection
and that's ClickUp. But the point being,
it's going to start to go over your
strengths and weaknesses. So, ClickUp
got wired the same day. Okay, maybe it's
doing relative because it's like, okay,
on day one that's not too bad. The
connections.mmd is comprehensive. We
have ClickUp, Fireflies, Gmail, Slack,
and revenue. But here are the top three
gaps and they're ranked by leverage. So
tier one domain is thin, meaning only
one of seven tier one domains are
reachable. So if we think back to this
where you worked up, we had seven of
these, right? Revenue, customer,
calendar, comms, tasks, meetings,
knowledge, and we've only hooked up
ClickUp. So, it's a little bit of comms,
a little bit of tasks, but still not
anywhere where we want to be. So, it
says, "Why are fireflies next?" Then we
have no recurring trigger or cadence,
which is the fourth C. We'll get into
that later. And zero useruilt skills and
zero agents. So, that's really where we
get a lot of the leverage is when you
come into this AIOS and you build your
own custom skills on top of everything.
Now, speaking of custom skills, let's go
ahead and also run this other one. This
is called level up. So, I'm going to go
ahead and do a slash and I'm going to do
the level up skill. And I actually
didn't realize that it suggested that it
said, "Hey, these are structural gaps to
explore capability gaps, which is what
your AOS could do that it can't do yet.
Run level up after this audit." And
also, you can see it says that do you
want me to save this? So, every single
one of your audits can get saved so that
you can see how you're actually
improving your AIOS over time. This
level up is basically going to analyze
your business, your connections,
everything that you're doing. And it
might even ask you questions, but it's
going to show you some areas where you
could just level up your stuff. So, it
says pulling from your stack. You have a
top pain of managing your team. You have
quarter 2 priorities. You have things
that are reachable now, and you have
things that are reachable soon. So,
here's what you should do. Answer these
questions however feels natural. One
sentence is fine. Walk me through this
past week. What did you do three plus
times? Drudgery. Is there anything that
felt manual, boring, or copy and paste?
Smart intern test. Anything where you
thought a smart intern could absolutely
handle this, but you ended up just doing
it yourself because explaining it would
take longer. Constraint. If 500 new
community members showed up on Monday,
what would break first? And growth
lever. What would give you 500 more
clients tomorrow if it were running on
autopilot? So, if you answer these five
questions, there is absolutely no way
that you're stuck. There's absolutely no
way that you think, I don't know what to
add to my AIOS. I don't know how to make
this better. Every time that you answer
these five questions, it will find an
opportunity for you to automate
something, to build a skill out of
something, to connect something else.
And that is why I built these two skills
to go together, audit and level up, to
make sure that you're constantly
improving and that you don't ever feel
alone and you don't ever feel stuck with
your AIOS. So, I'm not going to type
that right now. I'm not going to answer
that cuz we have a lot of work to do on
our own. But, I want to show you guys
something I did recently with Claude
Code and Google Workspace. So, I live in
Google Workspace, right? Um, everything
that I do is pretty much inside of there
besides ClickUp. And what happened was I
realized that across my company,
everyone had spun up so many different
Google Docs and so many different Google
Sheets and we had tracker sheets all
over. And Google search is horrible.
It's absolutely horrible. So, I was able
to connect Cloud Code to the GWS CLI. It
is one tool and it gives you access to
everything in the GWS environment. So,
I'm going to show you guys exactly how
to set that up in just a sec here, but I
was able to do some really cool things.
So, let me just show you guys a few of
these cool things that I was able to do.
If I go to my sheets, I have this video
database that has all of my videos. It
has the thumbnail, the title, a link to
them, and a summary, and all of the
resources that are associated with that
video. And this is now my video
database. And I don't do this manually.
Every time I post a video, the video
gets pulled in, the resources get pulled
in, and then a row gets updated on here.
And I built this because it was able to
search through my entire drive. It could
find all my YouTube videos. That was a
different connection. That was a YouTube
data API. But anyways, it could find all
that and then it could find all my
resources and then it could just put
everything in here. Super super
powerful. Another example, we have this
pretty massive doc about our AIS live
event and there's speaking slots and
there's, you know, different timings and
there's different outreach things and
there's a lot of data here. And I
basically said, "Hey, Claude Code, go
read this document." I gave it the link
to this. It opened up the doc in Google
Drive. It read all of it and then I
said, "Create me a database, a tracker
sheet." And it created this Google sheet
because it analyzed everything that was
going on in that doc. And it was able to
label everyone. It it made all of these
have drop downs with color coding. It
assigned these tasks to everybody. It
was able to just do everything for me.
And this would have taken so long for me
to do manually. Another thing I was able
to do is I have like all my YouTube
videos stored locally and it was able to
search through that, organize
everything, date everything, and then
upload all of that to Drive. And then it
deleted everything locally. And now what
I could do is I could have it organize
all of these into different folders
based on the date. So it can just help
you organize things, move things around,
create things. And all of this living
inside of my Google Drive, inside of a
shared company, Google Drive is awesome
because it can find things instantly.
And everyone else on my team, I was
like, "Hey guys, can you use the GW CLI
real quick and can you look through
everything you've ever built for the
company and can you put it into the
shared drive?" And now all of our AI
agents are able to touch all of the
things so much better. So the GWS CLI is
a huge unlock. Unfortunately, if you use
like Microsoft and that is your main
environment, the GW CLI probably won't
be too useful for you. I'm sure there's
something different for Microsoft's
environment that you should use. But I'm
going to play a quick clip for you guys
about how to set up the GWS CLI and a
little more information about it. So if
that doesn't appeal to you or not
interesting to you or you already have
it set up, then go ahead and skip past
this next part. But I'm going to play
this clip real quick. Google just
dropped what some are already calling
the most powerful workspace CLI on the
internet. So if you've got a ton of
stuff that lives in the Google
environment just like I do, then you're
going to love this because now any of my
cloud code projects can access
everything. And all I had to do was
install one simple thing. So here you
can see I said what can you do with GWS
which is Google Workspace CLI. So it can
search, list, upload, download, move,
copy, share anything in my Google Drive.
It can do anything in my Gmail. It can
do anything in my calendar. It can do
anything with Google Docs. Same thing
with Sheets. Same thing with Slides. And
it also has multi-step workflow recipes.
So these are basically like skills.
These are chain command patterns for
common tasks like creating docs from
templates, reading sheet data, and
creating a report doc, finding free
time, and scheduling a meeting. And
there are over a hundred of these that
it actually has. So out of the box, when
you give Claude Code the GWS CLI, you
can do anything across any of the tools.
And you also have access to over a 100
skills. So, I don't know how many times
you guys have tried to use something
like Claude or Naden to build you a
Google doc. And you do this over API and
it ends up just looking like something
like this. It literally just looks like
raw markdown and it's obviously
horrible. And sometimes to go along with
a YouTube video, I make resource guides
that look like this, but obviously they
have to be formatted. I've got like a
header up here and I've got links and
different things in this format. But now
I can literally just take the link to a
YouTube video. I can drop that into
Cloud Code and say, "Create me a YouTube
resource guide." It's going to go ahead
and download that transcript from the
video. And now what it's doing is it's
creating the Google doc, not via API
call, not via MCP, but via a bash
command, meaning it's literally running
a terminal command in order to talk to
Google and make this. So, it just
actually created the doc. Here's the ID.
And now it's going to populate it with
what I need. And now it finished this
up. It gave me the link. I'll click into
this. And we can see, boom, we have an
actual resource guide. It's got the
image inserted up here as a header. It's
got a link that goes right back to my
YouTube channel. It breaks down the
market traditional automation. It goes
through all this stuff and then even has
my CTA at the bottom as you can see
after all these horizontal lines to join
the plus group. So that was obviously
just one quick example, but there's so
many different benefits here using this
workspace CLI. The first one is that you
have one interface. So basically, like I
said, it was one GWS CLI that cloud code
now has access to and it can access my
Gmail, my drive, docs, sheets, calendar,
admin, and more. It's also JSON first
with structured responses. So our AI
agent is really, really good at working
with it. We have auto discovery, meaning
the CLI is pretty much always going to
stay up to date automatically. Pretty
much zero maintenance because we
authenticate and then we're going to be
good to go. It has built-in skills for
triage, for prep, for generations. Like
I said, there's a hundred others. And
it's not much overhead because it's
basically just one tool. It's not the
same as like having all these different
API endpoints or all of these different
MCP configs and tools that would take up
more context. But I know you're probably
wondering, what is a CLI? It stands for
command line interface. And what we're
typically used to is a GUI or a
graphical user interface where we can
see buttons, we can see form fields, and
we can click on things and that's how we
navigate, but computers are more
navigating by text and by commands and
by typing. So that's really all that a
CLI is. And this is an open- source
Google Workspace product, and obviously
it's completely free. So I'll leave a
link to this GitHub repository down in
the description if you want to check it
out, read more about it. But I'm also
going to walk through some of the key
details right here. The first thing that
I wanted to show you is if you go down
here to the skills, this is where we can
actually see all of the different kind
of recipes they call them for pre-made
multi-step workflows that it has. As you
can see, creating events from sheets,
creating presentations, creating meat
space, label and archiving emails.
There's so many different patterns that
you might use from this pre-built
library. Now, if we keep scrolling down,
what you'll also notice is that right
here it says this is not an officially
supported Google product. Now, that
doesn't mean that it's unsafe. This is
an actual Google product, but the reason
why it's not officially supported is
because right now it's more of like an
open- source beta. It's kind of a
developer playground rather than like an
enterprisebacked software. And you can
see right here that it also says, "This
project is under active development.
Expect breaking changes as we march
towards V 1.0." So, this thing is
already really good out of the box and
it's only going to get better. And you
can see, like I said, when Google
Workspace adds an API endpoints or
method, GWS picks it up automatically.
So, you might as well chuck it into
cloud code right now and start getting
used to it. Okay, so I just uninstalled
this so I can walk you guys through step
by step how this actually works. It's
super easy. What I do is I basically
copy the link to this GitHub repository
as you can see. And I'm going to
basically just give it to Cloud Code and
say, "Hey, I want to install this GWS
CLI, read through the documentation, and
help me install everything that I need
to install, and then we're going to get
set up." So, this is basically going to
do all the research for me, and then all
I have to do is follow its instructions.
So, it read the docs. It's looking at
what we already have installed. It
basically saw that I already had some of
the prerequisites. So if you don't have
those, you'll have to install those. And
then it told me that we needed to
install the CLI. So it did that. And now
we have two options. So the first one is
to install G-Cloud CLI so that we have
automatic setup and off. Or we could do
it manually by creating our own project
and whatnot. So let's just go ahead and
try option A. Okay. I thought this was
going to be just like a simple command
that it ran and then we were good. But
it's actually like some other thing to
install. So let's actually go back and
try manual and I'll just show you guys I
guess the harder way. Okay. So I'm going
to go to this link. go to our Google
Cloud Console and make sure you're
signed in with the right account up in
the top right. And I'm just going to go
ahead and create a new project just to
show you guys what this would look like.
So, new project. I'm going to call this
one Claude Code GWS. And we're just
going to go ahead and create this
project. So, this is spinning up right
now as you can see. And now that it has
been created, I'm going to select it so
we're inside of it. And then I'm going
to go up here and type in APIs and
services. Click on that. And we have to
set up our OOTH consent screen. So, I'll
click on this. and it's going to say get
started. Click on that. We have to give
our app a name. And then we have to
choose an audience. So, I'm just going
to do internal because I only need this
right now for my own organization. If
you want to do external, it'll basically
have you do testing or published. And if
you do testing, just make sure that you
add your email as a test user. And then
all you have to do after you put in your
contact information is hit I agree. And
then you go ahead and create that. Now,
once that has been done, you're going to
go to create a client ID. So, I'm going
to go back into APIs and services. I'm
going to go to credentials and then I'm
going to go ahead and do a create
credential oath client ID. Now, in here,
we're going to choose a desktop app. I'm
going to just call this GWS and go ahead
and hit create. And now, we have our
client ID and our client secret. And so,
what you're going to do is download this
as a JSON file. Now, you can see here
that it says to download that file and
save it to your global.config/GWS.
So, basically, if you can't find this,
just say, "Hey, can you give that to me
in a full path?" And then you can paste
that into your finder or your file
explorer and it will take you there. It
will probably look something like this.
And then you just drag in that
credential thing. I called mine client
secret. And cloud code will be able to
look at this globally now. And so what
you'll notice is that we didn't in this
project yet enable these APIs. So let me
just show you what happens without that.
So it says the last step is to run GWS
off login. So I just said, hey, I
finished option B. The credentials are
called client secret. And then I told it
to run the O login. So that should
basically open up a tab for you, but if
it doesn't, then you can ask for it to
give you that URL so that you can
actually authenticate in. So you would
basically choose your account that you
want to use. And then you just have to
basically confirm that it can access all
of these different things as you can
see. And then when you hit allow, you
should be properly authenticated. After
that, it's going to come back and say,
"Okay, cool. Let me see if everything
works." Now, this hasn't been perfect on
the first try every time, but if you
just go back and forth a little bit,
say, "Hey, that didn't work. Hey, this
is what I'm seeing." It will be able to
get you there. It's going to be your
best friend for something like this
because remember it can read all of the
actual documentation. And now it says
that the O is working, but we have to
enable these APIs in our Google Cloud
projects. So basically just clicking
open these one at a time and all you
have to do is hit enable. So it's super
simple. You just have to do this like I
said for all of these different services
that you actually want to be able to
use. So that's why I did this on a new
project cuz I just wanted you guys to
see that. But if you already have one
that has all these enabled, then you can
just use that project and generate that
OOTH client ID. So there you go. You can
see that this works. I said, "Can you
find my Google doc that I made in April
of 2025?" And I went ahead and pulled
links to all five of these because
obviously that was a very vague request.
And now we could take action pretty much
anywhere in Google Workspace super
simply with this CLI. But like I said, I
just got this set up today and I've been
playing around with it a ton in my
executive assistant project and it's
been awesome. It can literally do
anything. So here I'm asking it to grab
my unread emails from today and based on
what it knows about my business and my
priorities, give them a score and if the
priority score is below five, just mark
it as unread automatically. All right.
So, here you can see it said, "Got 30
unrated emails. Here's my priority score
based on your business context." And as
I scroll down, you can see that it's
getting different ratings. And based on
what I'm seeing right now, this actually
looks pretty good. So, then I started
playing around with Google Slides
because I use Gamma right now. But at
some point, I could imagine that if this
gets good enough, then I wouldn't need
Gamma anymore. And this is a free option
compared to Gamma subscription. So, I
had it create me a slide deck and it was
okay. I threw in my brand guidelines. I
threw in my logo and I said, "Hey, can
you see this? you created this using the
Google slides and it's okay but there's
some weird things that I need you to
fix. So then it came back and said I
cannot see the slides I just know how to
build them programmatically so that's
why there may be some errors with
spacing and stuff. So then I basically
just gave it access to ChromeDev tools
so that it could open the page
screenshot it look at it and then we
built a plan to add visual validation to
this Google slide creator skill. So now
you can see as it's going through it
actually takes screenshots and then it
can make fixes based on that. So then
after it fixes everything, it says,
"Okay, cool. Updated the skill. Take a
look at it now." So I'll open up this
link. Brings me to Google Slides where I
have this slide deck. It has kind of my
brand colors. It's got the logo up top
right. And then as we go through, we can
also see that the spacing is a little
bit better. It's still not perfect
obviously, but we have custom images
here that were generated with Nano
Banana 2. And even the images are kind
of on brand with the sort of orange and
blue color scheme. As you can see, we've
got this one with the WT framework.
We've got this slide. And it even ends
with a CTA for the free school
community. So just to see what else
happens, I'm going to say take a look at
the slide deck and do another audit. How
could you improve the skill in the
future? So it's going to go ahead open
up a tab as you guys just saw. It's
going to take images. It's going to
flick through the different slides and
capture them. And as you can see over
here, it now says take screenshot. And
now it's reading that screenshot right
there.
Now it just moved on to the next slide.
And it's going to go through and look at
every single slide. And then it's going
to come back with a plan. And we could
probably do a similar visual and
validate flow with creating Google Docs
as well. So now you can see it's almost
on to that last slide. And I hope it
fixes this last slide because what you
can see here is that the spacing is
really off down here. So you can see it
came back with an audit. It came back
with some future improvements. And one
thing that I did notice is that because
I made the window smaller, its
screenshots were probably worse quality.
So it said presentation mode screenshots
would probably be better. But anyways, I
just wanted to give you guys a little
taste of how you can use the GWS CLI.
but also use it with other tools to make
the functionality even more powerful.
So, just remember that this is very new.
There's a lot of people out there on
Twitter right now saying that this is
insanely overpowered. There's also a lot
of people that are saying that it just
feels kind of finicky. So far, for me,
it's been pretty great. Everything that
I've asked it to do or find or schedule,
whatever it is, it's been doing that
pretty much perfectly. But, there are
some people saying that it's asking them
to reauthenticate multiple times. So, if
that's a little frustrating, I guess
just keep in mind that it will only get
better. And we're not even to version
one yet. So I would definitely recommend
that you come to this GitHub, read about
it, but more importantly get this thing
installed in your cloud code setup and
just start using it, using it, using it.
Okay, so we've got the foundation of our
AOS set up. We've pretty much linked in
our context. We've pretty much linked in
connections. At least we understand now
that we've, you know, looked at all
these things. We understand how we could
go look at the documentation. We
understand how we could grab our API
keys and stuff. And we understand how to
hook everything up. And now we are at
this place where we want to keep
leveling up and keep moving up the chain
of the four C's. So next thing to think
about is capabilities. Now when I say
capabilities, what do I mean for the
most part? I pretty much primarily mean
building skills. Skills are those
reusable recipes we talked about that
help you do things more efficiently. And
so everything that I do on some sort of
cadence, you know, every time that I
need to pull in my YouTube analytics,
every time that I need to check in with
the team, every time that I need to
build a slide deck, all of those things
I've built skills for in my AIOS. If I
need to create images, if I need to
create a LinkedIn post, all of these
things are skills that I've built over
time because I've challenged myself to
do everything to do as much as possible
inside of my cloud code. So building
skills, building custom skills for your
specific SOPs, your specific workflows,
your specific tasks. Remember how we
talked about this thing earlier? Every
single task that you have can be broken
up into chunks. And all of these chunks
and this overall larger thing can all be
turned into a skill. So, what I want you
to do right now is I want you to grab a
piece of paper and I want you to think
about it's a Monday morning. You wake
up, you sit down at your desk, you're
ready to do work. What do you do? Write
down what you do on a Monday. And then,
unfortunately, pretend it's Tuesday. You
go to your desk. Write down what you do
on Tuesday. And as you do this
throughout the week, as you do this at
the end of each day, look at what you're
doing. Circle things that are repeated.
Circle things that you see pop up
consistently. Circle things that you
hate doing. And all of those things you
circled are things that you should come
into Cloud Code with and say, "Hey, I
have this process. You know, every
Monday I have to organize all of the
different tickets that we got over the
weekend, and I have to tag them and
classify them, and then I have to route
them to the right team, and then I have
to follow up with them throughout the
week. I hate doing that. Can you help me
turn this into a skill? Sure. Let me ask
you five or six questions to make sure I
understand what you want and let's build
a skill together. And that is exactly
how you start adding more and more
capabilities into your agent. So, in
order to get a better understanding of
skills, I'm going to go ahead and play a
video where I break down a bunch of the
ones that I use, how they work, and how
you think about building them and
improving them over time. It is super
cool. It is the biggest unlock inside of
an AIOS. So, I'll see you guys in that
video. I have genuinely never been as
productive as I am right now because of
Claude's skills. This image really does
sum it up. I feel like I'm working on
multiple different computers and
multiple different tasks at the same
time without sacrificing quality. It
just comes down to one simple word and
that is leverage. With Claude skills or
any agent skills for that matter, you
have way more leverage than if you were
doing this by yourself. So, in this
video, I'm going to be breaking down
what skills are, how they work, and how
you can build really, really good ones,
even if you've never heard of the
concept or built a single skill ever
before. So, let's hop into a live demo
real quick and get going. All right, so
here we are in Cloud Code in my Herk 2
project, which is kind of just like my
personal assistant. Now, if this stuff
over here looks overwhelming, don't
worry about that right now. Just worry
on what I'm actually asking the agent to
do. So, I've got the skill that I called
morning coffee that helps me plan my day
every morning. So, it's not morning
right now, but I'm going to run this so
you can see how it works. So, as Cloud
Code's figuring that out, what I'm going
to do is open up another agent. And in
this one, I'm asking it to run a pulse
check on all my projects and commitments
to see how things are going. I'm opening
up another one to create me an Excal
diagram of the difference between local
AI models and closed source models. And
let's just do one more that's going to
scrape the comments from my recent
YouTube videos and give me an analysis
on what I need to improve. So what
you're looking at right now is four
different agents running in parallel
doing things for me. And that took me
probably 30 seconds to ask them to do
that. And because I built all of these
skills, all of these agents have all of
the context about my business, what's
going on with our projects, my YouTube
channel. It has literally everything it
needs. And now all of those agents are
done. Here was my February 26th morning
coffee. I had three things on the
calendar. So, what it's going to do is
it's going to look at my ClickUp. It's
going to see what else I've got this
week and look at my tasks and then help
me plan the rest of my day. So, this is
the plan that it suggested. All I'd have
to do is say, "Yep," and it would block
off everything for me. And for me,
that's huge because I don't have
decision fatigue anymore of what I have
to work on. The second agent came back
with a pulse check. 2 days until the end
of the month. Here's where everything
stands. So, obviously I'm going to blur
all of this out, but it's basically
catching me up on all of the different
main initiatives that we're doing this
month and this quarter and making sure
that everything is on track. And right
here, you can see there's a few things
that I need to follow up on manually.
And this might have slipped through the
cracks because I'm so busy making
YouTube videos if I didn't have this
personal assistant to check up on me
using the skill. The third agent came
back and has finished the Excal diagram
and I pasted it in and it looks like
this. So, if I needed to make a video
about this, I wouldn't have had to take
my own time to create this
visualization. So, for the comment
analysis, that came back and we can see
all of the comments, all the views, and
things that I need to address either in
future videos or in the comments. We got
some confusion. We've got some cost
things that I need to cover. We have to
stop demoing toy examples for tool
videos. Seems like you guys really want
to see some anti-gravity stuff. I
promise that'll come soon. And then
we've got top three priorities. So, I've
been recording now this video for about
6 minutes. Just think about if I would
have done all four of those things
myself, how much context switching I
would have done and how long that would
have taken me. Okay, so now that you
guys have seen an actual demo and
hopefully you're a little bit excited to
learn about cloud skills if you haven't
used them yet, what actually are they?
So skills are reusable instructions. You
write them once, you save them as a
skill. You can trigger them anytime and
you're going to get way more consistent
results because it's going through that
same process every time. So this visual
right here was actually an AI generated
image that I used with a skill. It was
this one right here in my cloud code
called Excalaw visuals. But sometimes
with AI generated images, they don't
spell words right. As you can see here,
this is all messed up. This stuff is
messed up. So, I also have one, as you
saw in the demo, to create Excal
diagrams. And this one creates the
actual Excal that I could move and edit.
And the words are always perfect because
it's actually just typing. And those two
skills alone have saved me so much time.
And what I'm going to do, by the way,
for all you guys, is in my free school
community, the link for this is down in
the description, I've added a new
classroom section called agent skills
where I'm just going to be dropping a
ton of these skills that you guys can go
grab for completely free. So, before we
dive into this today, just real quick,
why should you care? And there's three
big reasons. You can be way more
productive as a person because you can
automate things like you just saw me do.
And you can legitimately build a
personal assistant that can do almost
anything for you. The second one is team
leverage. So you can turn existing SOPs
into automations really, really easy.
And if you build something new, not just
you can use it, but your entire
organization can. So everyone as a group
is getting way more productive, which
will almost undoubtedly result in growth
of the business. And also monetization.
We're entering this new world where
skills are having a big moment and
you're able to capitalize on a lot of
this stuff. Now, I'm not saying this is
going to be a viable business model for
a long, long time. So, you shouldn't
bank on it, but it is something to be
aware of just like when people were
selling end workflow templates and
things like that. But once again, it
just comes down to one word, which is
leverage. This isn't just theory. This
is something that we're seeing with
clients. This is something that we're
seeing internally in my own business.
This speed of work that we're able to
achieve right now feels insane, but that
is going to become normal. And if you
can't do that, you instantly become way
too slow and way too expensive for the
business and they might not keep you
around. We're actually making it a
priority to make sure all of our
employees are using cloud code. Because
now I have all these different skills
that I can just run with a simple slash
command or a simple natural language
prompt and get in one day a week's worth
of output. Because once again, one
person can figure out the best way to do
something and turn it into a skill that
the entire team can use. But they don't
just generate text. They're basically
automations. They can run scripts, they
can call APIs, they can create things,
they can have sub agents, and they can
be called on from agents as well. So,
this is truly AI automation. And just to
really hammer it home, they're basically
SOPs for your AI agents. The same way
where you would train a human employee
by letting them read through an SOP to
understand the process, and then they'd
be able to do it. You just train an
agent on it. You give them the skill,
they read it, and then they do it. And
the coolest part about it is the more
you use the skill, the better and better
it gets. So, we've talked about a lot of
these benefits, right? But what actually
is a skill? Well, it's just a folder and
it lives somewhere in your project. The
most common example is probably going to
be in your.claude/skills/skll
name and then you've got like a skillmd
or a markdown file. So right here in my
herk 2 project, you can see up top we've
gotclaude. I open up.claude, we have
agents, rules, and skills. Right now,
we're just talking about skills. If I
open that up, we can see all of the
different skills that I've created in.
So let's say for example, the excalagra
diagram skill. If I click into that, we
have a skill.md. And when I open that
up, you can see we have the name of the
skill, the description, and then we have
the actual workflow. Step one,
understand the concept. Step two, plan
the layout. Step three, generate
elements. And this entire skill
basically teaches my agent how to build
these Excal diagrams for me. So, like I
said, that is the anatomy of the skill.
We've got front matter, which is kind of
between these two dotted lines, and that
is in something called YAML, which you
don't need to worry about what that
means. This is just the way that it's
kind of indicated, sort of like your
markdown or your JSON or Python. Now, up
here, we'll have a name and a
description, which tells Claude Code
what the skill is called and what the
skill does. So, as you can see, this one
is called Excalraw- Diagram. And there's
a brief description about what it
actually does or when to use it. And
then we have the step-by-step rules,
which are basically the instructions.
And this is what Claude actually does
once it decides that this is the right
skill for the job. Now the interesting
thing about skills is that sometimes you
need way more data. So for example,
let's say we're writing a LinkedIn post.
We have a skill for that, right? But
what needs to go in the skill is other
information sometimes like a company
tone of voice or maybe your LinkedIn,
you know, tone of voice, a target
avatar, current priorities, a logo,
maybe there are other things that you
want to put into a skill besides just
like the step-by-step instructions that
will make it better. So the question is,
where do these things go? Well, there's
typically two options, but essentially,
as long as you're pointing to the right
path in the skill.md, you're fine. So,
let me explain what I mean by that, and
then I'll show you what I mean by that.
So, first option is to have it
self-contained. So, in
yourcloud/skills/skillame,
you can have the skill.md, you can have
your scripts right there, and you can
have your references right there. Or
option B is that they're not directly
nested right under that skill. So here
we have do.claude/skill/infographic
and the skillmd and we still have our
scripts and our references in the same
project but it's just not nested
directly under that skill. And so I know
that might have made no sense. So let me
show you exactly what I mean by that.
Okay. So here we have a skill called
idea mining. And so what happens in here
is basically used when someone asks for
content ideas, video ideas, what to make
next or to run idea mining. And so in
here I gave it some context, right? My
channel has this many subs. It's about
AI automation. My content pillars are
naden, rag agents, cloud code, voice AI.
And then what I gave it is a bunch of
references. I gave it channel data which
is YouTube channel.md. I also gave it
the raw data which is a JSON file. I
gave it a competitor list for me. And I
gave it an actual script to run analysis
on my YouTube channel. And so in this
case, what you can see is that I went
for option B where I'm storing those
reference files and those scripts, not
directly nested in this skill. So
basically what it could look like is
within the skill itself, we could have a
folder called, you know, references. We
could also have a folder in here called
scripts. And then within both of these
subfolders, we could have more things
like, you know, in the references, I
could have channel data. And in the
scripts, I could have
YouTube-analysis.js
or py, whatever it is. Basically, the
idea is it doesn't matter where those
actual reference files or scripts live
as long as you point to the right spot
in the MD file. So in my case, where
these actually live is in a different
folder. So here for the channel data, I
would basically just go all the way down
to references and then I could go down
to right here, YouTube channel.md. So
cloud code reads the skill and then it's
able to find this if it needs it. Same
thing for the scripts. It would go down
here to scripts and then it would find
analyze YouTube. py and it would just
pull this in if it needed it. So
hopefully you guys are with me. However
you want to set it up works. And I think
that's the most overwhelming thing about
cloud code right now is that everyone
uses different kind of folder
architecture. But don't worry guys, I'm
totally on top of this. I have a skill
that I built out called skilluer. And
this one I'll be giving away for free
once again in my free school community
right here. And all you'd have to do is
load in the skill builder and then it'll
help you build out everything you need.
And I'll be showing a live demo of that
in a few minutes here. So the skill.md
is the actual brain itself and the
supporting files are the tools that it
can use. That doesn't mean every single
time the skill is invoked that those
reference files will all be called. And
just in case you guys were wondering if
you've watched some of my previous Cloud
Code videos where we've used the WAT
framework to build automations, this is
very very very similar. In that
framework, the W the workflows were the
markdown file SOPs. That's basically the
skill. The tools were the actual Python
scripts and that's basically just the
scripts that you might write or the
references that you would add in. So if
you've already been building some WAT
stuff, you will pick up skills super
super quickly. The cool thing about
skills is that you don't have to build
all of them. Obviously, as you're
working with cloud code and you're
finding that you're doing things
repetitively, you can go ahead and build
a skill for it. But there's an official
library from Anthropic of Skills.
There's a community of everyone that's
open sourcing their skills and giving
them out. And there's a marketplace
where you can share and sell or you know
download skills from people. And then
you would take that skill or that
essentially a prompt and you would add
your own flavor to it. The one thing I
would say is just be careful and make
sure that no one's trying to, you know,
give you a skill that has any malicious
intent in there. And all these skills
can work across different products. So
cursor, anti-gravity, codeex, because
it's so based in markdown, and it's
essentially just a prompt, tons of
different AI models can use them. Okay,
so how does Claude know when to use a
skill? Well, there are two ways to
actually trigger them. The first one is
you can be explicit, which basically
means you can do a slash command and say
the skill name, and it will just
directly fire off that skill. Or it
could just be natural language. So if I
had a school post skill, I could say
slashschool-post.
Or I could natural language just say,
"Hey, help me write a school post about
X." Cloud would find that skill and then
invoke it. So when you ask Cloud to do
something, it will first read through
the cloud. MMD file. It will analyze
your request and it will search through
the skills and see which one do I have
that helps with this query. If it finds
one, it will invoke it. But if it can't
find anything, then it will basically
just use its general knowledge. So not
every single request that you give to
cloud code will invoke a skill. Now a
really important part of that is
understanding how skills stay
lightweight. Because if you've been
using cloud code, you know that context
management is a huge deal. And if you
had all of these skills to look through
and all of these skills are, I don't
know, hundreds and hundreds of lines,
then if cloud code was searching through
all of these every single time, that
would surely eat up a ton of your
tokens. So what's used is something
called progressive context loading,
which basically means we have three
levels. Level one is the initial search
where cloud code only looks for the name
and the description. So right here you
can see let's say we ask for an Excal
diagram. It would basically search
through all the skills but it would only
read the YAML front matter. So it would
read the name and the description. And
typically this front matter is only
going to be you know maybe roughly 100
tokens. So it stays very lightweight.
And then moving down to level two let's
say it identifies okay cool this is the
right skill for the job. Then it would
run the full skill.md and it would read
through everything. And so that's when
it would start to actually understand
what goes on in the skill. And that
might be anywhere from a thousand to a
couple thousand tokens. And then level
three is once again a decision. Only
load in the extra files when needed. So
if I need to look at any scripts or
references or templates or I need to
pull in some brand assets or more
context, I'm only going to do that if
the specific request requires it. And so
hopefully now you're starting to
understand a little bit more about under
the hood what's actually going on when
you ask Claude Code to do something for
you. And you can always go to Cloud Code
docs and go to the skills section and
just read about how this stuff works.
It's really, really simple. On the doc
itself, it will tell you just make sure
to keep the skill.md under 500 lines.
Move detailed reference material to
separate files. And so, I know this may
seem like it's just a lot of information
being thrown at you. So, let me just
kind of contextualize this and slow it
down and reassure you guys. You're never
ever ever going to write a perfect skill
the first try. The way that I build my
skills is I have Claude Code do
something with me. I walk it through the
steps, you know, each time. And then
when we're done, if we've went from
point A to point B, I say, "Cool. This
is something I do once a day. Let's turn
this into a skill. Ask me more questions
so we can make sure you have all the
information you need." And once again,
I'm going to show you guys opening up a
brand new project and setting up a skill
from scratch so you understand the full
process, but I just had to give you guys
some context first. Now, we have this
thing called the feedback cycle, which
basically means you invoke the skill,
you actually watch the agent work, you
give feedback, and then it fixes the
skill, and then you do it again. And so,
the first couple times you run a skill,
you may feel like, eh, this feels very
AI generated. But by the time you've run
that skill 10, 20, 30 times, every
single time it gets better. And so,
that's why it's actually important to
watch the agent work the first couple of
times because that's how you're able to
identify opportunities to speed it up
and save tokens by doing things like
this. So here's an example of the pulse
check skill that we actually ran
earlier. Now this skill gets invoked
when I ask for a pulse check or checking
in on commitments. And what it does is
it reads through some context of how
OTAAS work, which is important for it to
understand every single time it reads
the skill, which is why I put it here
rather than a reference file. And what
it has to do is it has to do a live
lookup on my ClickUp to understand
what's going on. So what I did is I
hardcoded in these list ids because when
I was watching it, I realized every
single time it was doing this, it was
calling the ClickUp MCP and it was
gathering all these lists and it was
searching and parsing the results and
then it would extract the ID and that
just was taking so long and it was
costing me a ton of tokens. So I
realized that's always going to be the
same. Why don't I just give it in the
skill document the list IDs and now it
knows how to do that instantly every
time and it doesn't waste all those
tokens. And on top of that, I know that
searching through ClickUp can consume a
lot of time and tokens. So, I built a
specialized sub agent that in this
skill, I say, "Hey, delegate to the
ClickUp searcher agent with this query
in order to do all of this searching so
that you don't blow your own context
window." All of that's handled over
there and then you only get the
information that you need. So, there's a
lot of advanced things that you can do
to manage your context. I'm not going to
dive into all of that right now. We're
just focusing on skills, but just wanted
to give you a little taste of what's
possible in the skill.md files. So,
another good example of needing a
reference doc like that is in my skill
builder skill. I obviously use this when
I'm creating new skills, optimizing
skills, auditing skill quality, things
like that. And a lot of the inspiration
I got from this was of course straight
from Claude Code Docs itself about how
to actually use and build and optimize
skills. And so, when I was building this
out, I I was watching the agent, you
know, run the skill and I realized it's
searching every single time. It's doing
a web search and it's crawling the
entire document, even if I just need a
little piece of information. So, what I
decided to do was I told it to basically
scrape that whole thing. And then I gave
it a reference.md, which is basically
the documentation. So, I've got my
skill.md. And what it does is it
references that full file if it needs
it. But really, the main idea that I'm
trying to drive home here is that
processing markdown files for your agent
is so much quicker and cheaper than
actually making API calls or HTTP
requests, you know, executing functions
and reading tons and tons of tokens. So,
the goal is your skills will get to a
place where you can invoke them, focus
on something else for 10, 15 minutes or
whatever, and then come back and have a
finished result that is really, really
good. But the first couple times that
you are testing out a skill, I think
it's a really good idea to just sit
there and watch it and see what it's
doing. And a lot of people have asked me
like when do you know when to build a
skill? Well, basically just go about
your work and if you ever realize that
you've done something already or you've
instructed something differently like I
tell my claude to not use m dashes.
Okay. Well, that's probably a good idea
to put that in the prompt, right? So, if
you ever find yourself doing a process
or repeating prompts, then that's
probably a good use case to build a
skill around it because skills don't
have to be complex. They could literally
just be a 50line markdown file. All
right, so we're about to hop into a live
build of a skill from scratch. But what
I wanted to do real quick was go over
the six-step skill building framework.
So number one is the name and the
trigger. What is it called and the
natural language that would basically
fire it off? Number two is the goal. So
in one sentence, what will this skill
accomplish by the end? What will be the
output? Number three is the actual meat
of it. That's the step-by-step process.
If you had to do something manually,
exactly what do you do in what order?
What do you look at? And what decisions
do you make? Number four is the
reference files. What context do you
need? Do you need images? Do you need
understanding of current projects,
current priorities? Do you need style
guides? What do you need to do the job
well? Number five is the rules. Think
about what could go wrong and then the
agent can help you building guard rails
and constraints around that. And then
number six is kind of like after you've
built it, it's just the self-improvement
loop. And after the live build, I'm
going to talk about actually testing and
iterating and what you need to do to
make them really, really good. But for
now, that's the six-step skill building
framework. Let's hop into a live build.
Okay, so here we are in Visual Studio
Code, which is where I like to use Cloud
Code. If you don't have Visual Studio
Code, just go ahead to a browser, type
in VS Code, and then go ahead and
download this. This is what it will look
like. If it's your first time using
Cloud Code in here, you just have to go
to extensions on this lefth hand side,
type in Cloud Code, and then install
this, and then log in with your paid
Anthropic subscription. Now, after that,
you're going to click on this top left
button, and it's going to pull up this
little thing that says you have not yet
opened a folder. What you need to do is
open up a project to work in. So you
could either open up one that you're
already working on or you could go ahead
and create a new folder and then open
that one up. For the sake of the demo, I
just opened up a new blank folder called
a bunch of skills. And I'm going to show
you exactly what to do. So the first
step is to go to my free school
community link in the description. Go to
the agent skills classroom and download
the skill builder folder. Once you've
got those files ready to go, first thing
we want to do is just set up this
workspace real quick. Initialize this
project with a simplecloud/skills
structure. Cool. So, as you can see,
that got set up. We have aclaude. We
have a skills folder. And what I'm going
to do is in this skill folder, I'm going
to create a new folder called
skill-builder
and hit enter. And then I'm going to
take those two files for my school
community, the reference and the
markdown, and I'm going to put that
right in here. So now we have this skill
builder set up with the reference file
and the actual skill markdown. I'm
asking it if it can see that new skill
that I just added. It says, "Yes, I can
see it." And I'm basically just going to
say, "Cool. Let's run that skill to
build a new one together. So now you can
see what it did is it basically is
reading the skill right now. This is the
instructions that we saw right in here.
As you guys know, since that's how
skills work, it starts to read this. So
here we go. I built this skill to
actually ask you questions so that it's
way easier for you to communicate what
you want. So the first thing is what
problem are you trying to solve? What we
want to do is content creation because
in this skill, what I want to do is
building branded infographics. What kind
of content does the skill create? What's
the specific use case or workflow? And
I'm actually just going to choose other
for this. And I'm going to say
educational infographics. Now it's
asking how we should trigger this skill.
So does it want to be natural language
or do we want to just use slash
commands? And I'm just going to say both
is fine. And now we're moving on to the
step-by-step process, which is really
important because at this point we
haven't told it what text stack we
actually want to use or anything else
about our business. So walk me through
what should happen from trigger to
output. And it has some good guesses,
but what I'm going to do is do other and
explain this the way that I want it
built. I will tell you what I want an
infographic about. You will create a
concept. You will make a request to
key.ai to use nanobanana to generate the
outline or sorry to generate the image.
And you will also look at the brand
guidelines that I give you so that
everything that is created follows my
brand colors and typography and stuff
like that. The output format that I
actually want is a PNG, not any of this
stuff. Does this need to be
conversational or fire and forget? I'm
just going to go fire and forget. All
right. All right. So, how does the key
AI nanobanana integration work? Is it an
API call? Yep. We're just going to go
with an API call. And in these options,
you could literally say, I don't know.
Let's try different things. You know,
help me figure out what's best. It's
asking where those brand assets live, so
I'll put them in a folder. And where
should the generated PNG infographic be
saved? Yeah, sure. Let's start a new
folder called projects, and we'll throw
all of them there. So, it's going to
keep our project organized as well. So,
now it's asking about brand guidelines.
I created this folder, and I put in our
kind of color scheme as well as the
actual AS logo. I have put in both our
AIS brand guidelines and the AIS logo. I
want to make sure that in the top left
corner of every single infographic
that's created, the AIS logo appears
exactly as I've given you. But I think
you guys get the point here. I'm going
to answer a few more questions and then
I'll just show you when we have a
result. And now that we've done that,
what you can see is it is going to
create the skill. It's going to create
the logo overlay. It's going to create a
supporting reference markdown file for
all of the API details that it's going
to need. So that's great. It's going to
register the skill in claw.md and it's
going to log its decisions. All right,
so it fully built the skill. It created
all those files for us. We just have to
give it a key API key so it can actually
run this. Okay, so I threw in my API key
and then I said test it out with an
infographic about cloud skills. That's
it. No other context. It invoked the
skill right here and we will see what
happens. Okay, this is really
interesting. So what it's doing is it is
generating the image and then it's just
going to overlay the logo. So, it's
going to be a lot more consistent than
giving the AI image generator Nano
Banana my logo. So, I didn't even tell
it to do that. Let's see how it looks.
Okay. Well, I don't love this. We're
just going to go back and ask it to
change some things. The logo on the top
left doesn't look great. I gave you a
logo with a transparent background. So,
it should just be overlaid on top and we
should be able to see the background
behind it. The actual infographic itself
is all right, but I actually want these
to always be one by one aspect ratio.
Okay, so I made some suggestions and
it's going to try again and it's going
to update its skill. So we'll see if
that's better. All right, so second time
we run the skill. Let's see if it's any
better. All right, there we go. We've
got the logo up top. We've got cloud
code skills, custom AI workflow, command
prompt, trigger, front matter, config
triggers, AI agent delegation, document
output. So just keep in mind all we said
was build an infographic about cloud
skills. And this was run number two.
Every single time that we do this cycle,
remember we talked about the feedback.
We would basically watch it again, give
more feedback, and then keep going. And
after we run this probably five or six
more times, this would be really, really
good. And then every time I ask for an
infographic, it's going to be
consistent. And just to show you guys
what was actually built, if we open up
the infographic builder skill, we have
the actual skill itself. So we have the
front matter right here, the name, the
description, we've got what the skill
does, we've got context, so here's where
it links to the actual brand guidelines
and logos. We've got the step-by-step
workflow right here. And we can see
right here for full API reference and
parameters just see the markdown file so
that you don't have to actually go
search the web and search through a
bunch of tokens. You can just read this
markdown file. All right. So we've
talked about a lot of stuff about skills
today and we just built one live. So
what I want to talk about now is really
how do you bridge the gap from like a
90% good skill to making it pretty much
100%. So testing, iterating, and
debugging. There's different symptoms
and there's different fixes. So let's
just kind of go down this list one by
one. The first symptom might be it does
the wrong steps or in the wrong order.
Well, you would just tell it to edit the
skill.md instructions. You could get
missing tone, style, or context. In that
case, you're going to add reference
files. And of course, those have to be
pointed to correctly in the skill.md.
You could get the same mistake happening
over and over, then you're going to add
a rule. If it struggles with a tool or
an MCP or it keeps searching for the
same things, then create some sort of
reference dock for it. If it works good,
but it could get better, then that just
means you have to brute force it. you
have to just run it over and over and
over and keep nitpicking at what it does
wrong or maybe not wrong but what it
could improve on. If the skill isn't
triggering, then check the YAML and make
sure it is specific enough. If the skill
triggers too often, then maybe try
disabling model invocation and that is
something that you can see in the claw
docs, which basically gives you control
over if the skill can only be invoked by
natural language or only be invoked by
the slash command directly or both. So,
like I said, if you want to look at some
more advanced stuff, then definitely
head over here to the actual doc. But at
this point, we've covered almost
everything about these skills. One thing
that I would call your attention to is
the actual front matter reference
because we saw the name and the
description, which is what's required
every time. But there's lots of other
things that you can add in there. Here
is the disable model invocation like we
just saw. But you can also give it
allowed tools. You can also give it an
argument hint. You can give it a
specific model to use. You can give it
specific context. You can give it hooks.
You can give it a specific agent. And so
all of this lets you get really, really
granular on the exact skill and how you
want it to be used. But don't get
overwhelmed. You really only get to that
point once you've ran the skill a ton of
times. Now, another thing that I need to
hit on real quick is where do skills
actually live because what we've seen so
far is just building them right in
ourcloud/skills folder. But when you're
doing this, they only exist in that
specific project. So whether that's my
her two or my, you know, the one we just
spun up, if I went to a different
folder, that skill would no longer be
able to be accessed by our cloud code.
But you can also create skills that are
actually global. And you do that by
doing that in a different directory in
your kind of overall home directory. And
that's basically indicated by the little
tilda right here. And so that means
every project you use in cloud code, no
matter where you are, that skill would
exist. So for example, I have a
front-end design skill that is installed
globally. So that whenever I'm anywhere,
if I need to do front-end design, it
just is able to use it. And just in case
you want to look at it in a different
way, right now what we're doing is we
have our project, right? So, herk 2 and
then we have dotcloud and then within
dotcloud we have skills and then your
skill and then your MD, your references,
whatever and then maybe another skill.
But if it was global, you might not
actually see it in your project. It
would just be within your overall home
directory. So, the reason why you might
want to do this is if there's something
very specific about you, your business,
your workflows that you want applied to
every single project, no matter what,
maybe your company context, your company
projects, your tone of voice, whatever,
then you can install that globally
instead. All right, great. Right. So,
now that you guys understand skills a
little bit better and you're excited to
start building some, the last piece of
the four C's is cadence. And what does
cadence mean? Cadence means a couple
things in my mind. It means that because
you can now turn off your laptop and
things will still run, you have to
figure out the different triggers. And
you have to figure out what are things
that I should actually set up on some
sort of cadence. Whether that means you
want to have a skill running in the
background or you want to have an actual
deterministic automation running in the
background or it means you want to have
some sort of dashboard with live data
across all of your different connections
and you want to have one clean place to
look at all of that. So let me address a
lot of those things that I just
mentioned and how you can start to work
in a cadence around that stuff. So one
of the very first things that you can do
is you have this AIOS project, right?
You should probably be putting this onto
a GitHub repo. You can keep it
completely private. That's 100% fine.
But you should probably put that on
GitHub. Now, if you're asking yourself,
what is GitHub? Let me just explain that
to you real quick. So, basically,
everything that you build in Cloud Code
is a bunch of folders and files, right?
So, in this example, we've got the AIOS
with our, you know, our readme, our
claude, we've got our references, we've
got ourcloud with our skills. This is
basically what your project is at the
end of the day. And this is all being
stored locally. Meaning if you have one
laptop that you're working on this with
and then you open up your second laptop,
they will not sync. You will only have
that on one laptop. So GitHub is
basically a place for you to upload your
folders and files and basically your
codebase. So if you put this into a
GitHub repo, short for repository, then
you could basically just pull that repo
in. So if you guys remember at the
beginning of this video when you cloned
my repo, that's because I uploaded it
there so anyone could go clone it. So
you can upload one privately, meaning no
one else can touch it, but you can
because you have login access, right? So
now if you open up your other laptop,
you can pull in that GitHub repo and
just keep working. So you have your AIOS
no matter wherever you are. But the
second thing you can do on top of that
is you can actually use that GitHub repo
with Cloud Code on the cloud or an
OpenClaw agent or a Hermes agent or
whatever of these other agent frameworks
that you want to use, a codeex even. you
could plug that into any different AI
harness. So, if you wanted to be able to
use your AIOS whenever you're, you know,
out of town or if you are on the road
and you don't have your laptop with you,
you could connect it to like ClickUp,
you could connect it to Telegram because
you could put, you know, cloud code on a
VPS or you could have it running on a
Mac Mini or something. There's different
ways that you can have access to your
AIOS 247. You know, you could use, like
I said, a Hermes agent or an OpenClaw
agent as well. But that is one thing
that you can do so you always have your
AIOS with you no matter where you are.
Now, what else can you do? You can
actually start to schedule these tasks.
You can start to schedule all of your
capabilities. So, all of your skills,
you can have them run every hour. You
can have them run every Monday at 6 a.m.
You can even have them triggered on some
sort of, you know, web hook. So, those
are the things that you can be looking
at next. Now you guys remember earlier I
mentioned that you could also use the
desktop app of claude because in claude
you have code, you have co-work and you
also have claude chat and you can use
claude code right here in the desktop
app and you can run your AIOS just fine.
I just prefer VS Code. But what's cool
in here is that you have routines and
when you have routines they can either
be local or they can be remote. The
difference here is that a local routine
has to run with the desktop app open.
But a cloud routine can run with your
desktop app closed and with your
computer off. As you can see, local
routines only run while your computer's
awake. But on my plan, which is 200
bucks a month max plan, I can only have
15 remote cloud routines running per
day. And you can even open up the
calendar and see, okay, today's
Thursday. Here are all of the routines
that I have running on a Thursday. On
Friday, here are all the routines that I
have running on a Friday. And this is
where you really start to set up some
nice cadence of things that actually
happen while you sleep, which is just
absolutely awesome. And what's cool
about these is they actually run skills.
So for example, this is my school wins
engagement scheduled task or routine.
What happens is the first instruction
here is run the wins engagement skill.
So a routine basically just injects this
into a real claude chat. It doesn't run
some sort of, you know, Python script on
the cloud. it runs a real clawed session
the same way that if I copied this exact
prompt right here and I dropped this
into my AIOS it would do the same thing.
So let me just real quick show you today
at 10 a.m. when this ran it did it like
this. It dropped in this exact prompt.
It ran the skill called wins engagement
and then you can see down here cloud
code basically ran the skill found all
the results and then it executed
everything for me in my school
community. So that is kind of the highle
overall really cool aspect of routines.
I'm going to go ahead and play a clip
right here just to dive into the cloud
routines a little bit more because I
think that those are very important to
understand. And there's a few gotchas
where if you don't watch this video, you
might end up getting stuck. So, I'm
going to play this video real quick and
then you guys will be right back here
with me. Cloud Code has finally brought
us routines, which basically means you
can inject a prompt into Cloud Code, but
it can be running on the web, so your
laptop does not have to stay open. And
I'm so excited about it. I've already
been playing around with it. I've been
migrating my automations over there, but
there are a lot of little gotchas. So,
I'm here to explain exactly how you can
actually set up these automations so
that they work. So, today, April 14th,
Claude tweeted, "Now, in research
preview, routines in Cloud Code, you
configure a routine once, which is
basically like a prompt, and it can run
on a schedule from an API call or in
response to an event, and it runs on
Anthropics web infrastructure. So,
that's awesome. So, you can call a
routine from an API, you can have GitHub
events trigger it, or they can be
scheduled, which are like the scheduled
automations that we already have, but
now they run on the web. So, you really
can create these from anywhere. You can
do it right here as a scheduled trigger
to run scheduled remote agents which is
in the terminal. You could also go to
clawai/code. So you could do it on the
web. And right here you see I have three
web- based routines right here. Or what
I'm going to be showing you guys today
is just doing it in the desktop app.
Because right here, if I go to my
scheduled tasks, you can see that I've
got some like these four that are local.
And then I've got these four that are
running inside of a GitHub repository.
So these are the remote ones. If I go up
here and click on new task, this is
where we could set up a new local task
or a new remote task. It's very similar.
You set up the name, you set up what
Claude should do, and this is the actual
prompt. So, I'll talk more about that in
a sec. But then you would configure your
model, your repository, and your cloud
environment. You set the cadence,
hourly, daily, weekdays. I think the
minimum is once an hour, like you
couldn't go like every 10 minutes or
something, but still not bad at all.
This is where you could configure all of
your connectors. So, if you need to
connect Slack or Gmail or, you know,
whatever it is, you can connect them
right here. But you can also just do
your regular API endpoints with your API
keys. And then, of course, you've got
your permissions. So, you can choose how
Claude should be acting. Now, the one
thing about these are these are meant to
be a oneshot prompt. You're not around.
So, you probably want to make sure that
it doesn't ever have to stop and ask you
questions. Otherwise, what's the point
of the automation? So, like I said,
there's tons of things to dive into
here, and I'm not going to try to bore
you guys, but some of this is really
important because when I first got this
set up, my automations weren't just
migrating over and working. So, I'm
going to tell you guys the issues that I
ran into, and hopefully answer
everything that you need to know so that
you won't have to go into the comments
and ask these common questions. I can
just answer them right here for you. So,
let me just first of all, real quick,
show you guys what I tested out. The
first thing I wanted to test out is if I
came in here and I created a new routine
for just shooting a message to my
ClickUp. Obviously, that's not any
value, but I just wanted to see how it
worked because what I wanted to do is
see if I could do this without adding my
connector of ClickUp. And I was able to
actually get this to fire off, but it
didn't work right away. So, let me show
you guys what I ran into. So, the way
that this works is you need a GitHub
repository to sync it to in order for
this to actually run. So, it's going to
clone my Herku project right here in the
web. It's going to be able to read my
cloud.mmd. It's going to be able to read
my scripts and my skills. And then after
it finishes the job, it basically just
destroys that little cloud GitHub clone.
But as you guys know, you don't push
your secrets into GitHub because if you
see here my my Herk 2 project, this is
myv file with all of my API keys. And
this is listed in the git ignore, which
basically says, hey, when you push to
GitHub, you don't include these files.
So what that means is in here, if this
is only looking at your GitHub repo,
there's nov. So how do you get your API
keys into this routine that runs on the
web? Well, what you do is inside of this
scheduled task, you have a cloud
environment. So if I click on this one,
you can see this one is called Nate
Hertz cloud. So if I open up the
settings, what do you see? You have the
name of this cloud environment. You have
the network access and you have
environment variables. So right here is
where I put in my YouTube API key, my
ClickUp API key, any of the other API
keys that I need to give this cloud
environment access to. And then the
other thing you have to do is you have
to look at the access levels because
right here you can see that this one is
on full but by default this will be on
trusted I believe and that means you can
only download packages from verified
sources from Anthropic. And when we talk
about this later I'll have a link which
you can go see all of them. You could
even do custom if you wanted to allow
specific domains that aren't on that
list. But in order for ClickUp to work
in this case I had to go on full because
when I went on trusted it said hey we
can't actually do that. But when I
change this to full, it let me send a
message to my ClickUp. And that is how I
got this message right here that says,
"Just testing that the remote tasks work
and the credentials work." So basically,
when these run, whatever you have here
as your instructions is what gets
prompted. And that's exactly the same
way that the scheduled tasks locally
work. So right here, you can see I say
send a message in the internal ClickUp
channel. And right here, the actual
thing that it says was send a message in
the internal ClickUp channel. So, think
of a scheduled task or a routine as you
basically typing in a prompt and then
someone coming in to your laptop and
typing it in for you. So, it's the exact
same type of interaction as you talking
to Cloud Code. But that's why once
again, you want to make sure it's
specific enough so that it can basically
oneshot it. Okay. So, let's take it a
little deeper. Now, what I tried to do
is I did another one which I wanted it
to be able to use the YouTube data API
in order to grab some YouTube comments
for me and give me a little analysis in,
you know, ClickUp or whatever. So, this
is the prompt I said, right? Analyze 50
of my most recent comments from YouTube
and give me a quick bullet rundown. My
YouTube API key is available as an
environment variable. Use it directly
from the environment. Don't look for av
because what happens is in your repo,
right? So in this her 2 project um when
I normally run this it grabs all my API
keys from the env.mmd
and realizes that's where a lot of those
live. So by default it's maybe going to
try to look in thev and it's not going
to be smart enough to figure out and so
for clickup it was fine. It figured it
out but for some reason with this
YouTube one it didn't. So I had to
explicitly tell it hey look in the
environment variable rather than in
thev. So you can see this first time I
ran it 1241 I didn't say that and it
couldn't do it. It said like, "Hey, I
can't find that. I'm getting an error."
And I even tried to tell it here, and it
still didn't work. But then on this most
recent run, when I updated the prompt a
little bit, it was able to fetch it
right away using the API key. And now I
have a remote, you know, routine that
would work. Obviously, I need to update
this. I'm going to migrate over my other
automations, but this was just for
testing purposes. And then another one
that I do is I have some automations
here which basically opens up a browser
using playright CLI and it does some
stuff in my school community because
there's no publicly accessible API.
We've kind of figured out a way to
automate it without using browser. I'm
not really going to dive into that right
now. But what I wanted to tell you guys
about that is I tried to basically move
over this school wins engagement post or
sorry automation into a remote session.
So, I copied the exact same prompt that
was in my regular scheduled task and
then I just added this little snippet at
the end. But what happened is this
wasn't working because it basically
said, hey, you know, like when you do
this, it spins up a browser, but there's
no cookies because all of this is
running remotely and all I have to look
at is the GitHub repo. I can't look at
the local, you know, cookies that we've
used in the last couple sessions of this
automation. And so, it doesn't seem like
this would work because once again, it
has no access to that stuff. So if I
wanted to do an automation like this, I
would have to use um an endpoint that
takes authentication in the form of like
actual cookies or a header or you know
like an API key because every single one
of these runs is going to be stateless
and after the run the GitHub clone just
gets deleted. Now the exception of that
is if the automation is changing
something in your codebase or doing a
review. If it does do that it will
create a new branch for you or it will
give you some sort of output and not
just delete everything that it just did.
But for an automation like this it would
just delete it. But hopefully after you
guys have seen those examples, you now
have the ability to come in and you know
make some changes if you need in order
to make sure that your automations are
running. And what I mean by that is you
understand this should be a very
specific prompt. This is how you change
the model. You have to have a GitHub
repo. You can change the settings for
your cloud environments right here. You
set the schedule. You add any connectors
you might need, which would honestly be
a little easier if you added just like a
Slack connector. And then you can set
your permissions here. Now, the other
thing to be aware of is you do have
limits. So, if I come over here to my
settings, you can see if I go to my
usage, we have our regular session
limits, our model limits, but for
additional features, we have daily
included routine runs, and I haven't run
any yet on the actual schedule. I've
just been testing them. Um, but we are
at zero for 15. So, I could only have 15
automations running with routines per
day because I'm on the max $200 a month
plan. Your limits would be less if
you're on Pro. I think maybe three or
maybe five. I'll I have that information
later on, but just something to keep in
mind. All right, so let's just dive into
a little bit more of the details here
that may answer some questions you guys
have. I think it's pretty clear at this
point what it is. Um, I'm going to give
you guys this entire doc as well as
anything else I've talked about in my
free school community. The link for that
is down in the description. So, some of
the stuff I may not cover. If you want
to read more about it, then just go
ahead and grab that free resource. So,
we know what it is. I think we know how
it works, right? Like you define a
routine, which is a prompt. You connect
a GitHub repo. You could also trigger it
by APIs or by a GitHub action and then
you can connect your connectors and
basically it acts as you talking to your
own cloud code. Because of the fact that
this is working off of a cloned repo,
it's going to read the cloud.MD file
automatically every time. So if you have
a massive project like a Herk 2 project
for example with tons of context and
tons of stuff maybe you don't want to
put that repo into the cloud to be a
routine run because there's a lot of
context in that cloudMD and in that
whole GitHub repo that might not matter
for this automation. So maybe you're
better off setting up a specific GitHub
repo per scheduled routine. But of
course, cloud.m best practices putting
in the information that's important
because this stuff is going to drain
your cloud code session limits the exact
same way as it would if you were open up
in cloud code just talking to it. So
once again, three trigger types,
schedule API, which I think is really
cool. You could have a different
automation make a post request to some
sort of routine. And then of course
GitHub so you can have it automatically
fire off kind of on a web hook based on
new PRs, new pushes, new issues, new
releases, things like that. So how does
this compare to what already exists? We
have routines which is the new feature.
We have desktop scheduled tasks and then
we have something like just a /loop
command. So routines run on Anthropics
cloud and these other two run on your
machine. Do you need the machine on? No,
for routines that's huge. But for
desktop scheduled tasks and for loop,
you need your machine on. Do you need a
session open? No, that's the same across
all three. Do they survive across
restarts? The first two do, but loop
does not. That has to live within a
specific session. Local file access, no
for the routines because it works off of
the GitHub repo. And for the next two,
yes, you have local file access.
Permission prompts with routines, it's
fully autonomous. And for these two,
they are configurable. And then the
minimum interval routines is 1 hour. And
these two are both could go every minute
if you want. Okay, so let's talk about
the environments. Obviously, your env
get ignored unless you push it into the
GitHub repo. You know, ultimately, if
you push it into a private repo, you're
probably okay, but you want to be really
really careful because then, you know,
there's history there and if other
people, you know, end up collaborating
on it, you just don't want to do that.
So, you want to put your API keys in the
environment variable like I showed you
guys earlier. You want to look at the
network access, whether that is full or
trusted or none or custom, and
potentially some setup scripts. So,
that's not something I showed you guys
yet. If you're creating a new remote
task, you can do a setup script, which
is basically just a script that will run
when this new session fires up before
cloud code launches. So if you need to
install any packages or anything like
that. Okay, so what's the difference
between trusted and full? So trusted
only reaches the known vetted services
from Enthropic, which I thought I linked
right here, but I just linked it there.
This basically shows you all of the
different domains that are allowed. So
right here you can see we've got
enthropic services, we've got version
control, we've also got some cloud
platforms like Google, stuff like this
right here. These are the ones that are
kind of already verified. So what is the
risk of going on full? Well, if Claude
reads malicious content during a run,
then it theoretically could be tricked
into sending data to an external server
and with trusted that outbound request
would get blocked. Now practical risk
for private repos where you control the
inputs is very low, but I definitely
just wanted to at least acknowledge
that. So connectors. This is different
than just adding your API key. This is
more of like the connectors you would
add to your actual claude chat or like
claude co-workth into like Slack or
ClickUp or stuff like that. Here are
some security details. I'm not going to
go super deep into this. You could also
do some more research and download this
doc. But of course, there are some
things to be thinking about like your
API triggers or what's going on with
your GitHub repos and the branches
because once again, everything is going
to be running as you. So if you're not
testing out these routines before you
just kind of send them off every hour or
something, you just have to be thinking
about what could happen without
permissions and you know stuff like
that. Limits and quotas. So it looks
like on pro you can have five runs a
day. On max you can have 15 runs a day
and on team and enterprise you can have
25 routines a day. If you hit the cap
the orgs with extra usage enabled can
exceed it on metered overage. And then
we have the minimum scheduled interval
which is one hour. And there are also
resource limits. So every one of these
routines in the cloud runs on four
vCPUs, 16 gigs of RAM, and 30 gigs of
disk space. So once again, just be
thinking about, are you putting an
absolutely massive GitHub repo up into
the cloud right now to run? That could
just be wasting resources for no reason.
So what persists versus what gets
destroyed? The clawed branches gets
pushed to your GitHub repo and the
session also stays. So as you saw, if I
came into here and I looked at all of
these tasks, I could see all of the past
runs and I could go look at them to see
if something's going wrong. but the
actual cloud environment that gets
cloned will be destroyed. Basically, the
rule of thumb here is if something's
local or if cloud code can't reach it in
your GitHub repo or via an API, then it
won't work. We already talked a little
bit about writing good prompts, but you
definitely want them to be more
specific. For example, with my um
scheduled automation here, this is much
more specific, right? I have a skill
that I wanted to run. I give it the
order of operations, but something more
like this YouTube comments one, this is
not what you'd want to put in there
unless you were defining a skill to just
let it run because once again, this is
supposed to be a oneshot prompt. So, you
wanted to make sure it gets it right on
the first try. Okay, so why is this so
exciting and why does this beat normal
automation? Because we are actually
keeping the agentic framework. If you if
you know when I talk about the WAT
framework where we have workflows and
agents and tools when we actually push
those automations to the cloud and it's
just a you know sort of a Python script
we're losing the agentic piece we're
only sending off really the tools and
the workflow but in this case we're
keeping the WA and the T all running
together because the agent is looking at
the you know cloud MD it's looking at
its scripts and it's figuring out what
to do and if it runs into errors midrun
it will selforrect and if you configure
it the right way it will be able to sort
like leave a memory trail and it can
leave like you know updates even though
each run is stateless you can still have
them kind of continuously get better and
real quick let's speedrun through these
common questions do I need to know cron
syntax nope you just can schedule in
natural language super easy can it
access my local files nope it only gets
what's in your GitHub repo or your APIs
what model does it use can choose any of
the models as you guys saw can you watch
it work in real time yes you can hit run
now and then you can obviously watch it
go right there same way you would in
Claude You can even talk to it after
it's done or interrupt it and then
continue going. Can it use my MCP
service? Yes, that is what the
connectors are. Can teammates use my
routines? Nope. These belong to your
individual account. You might be able to
share those if you're on a team plan,
but I haven't actually yet tested that
myself. What's the cost? It's just your
normal subscription usage. So, keep that
in mind. What happens when a run fails?
Every one of them will be stored in your
history. So, you can go see why they
failed. You could maybe even have it at
the end of every single routine, say,
"Hey, if this does fail, just shoot me a
Slack message to let me know." Things
like that. And can I test a run before
going live? Yes, in fact, you should
test it multiple times before it goes
live. You just go into the routine, you
hit run now, and then it will pop up as
running. And then you just watch it, you
know, watch it go through its order of
operations, and you can inject, and you
can help it correct itself. So that you
have confidence that once it shoots off
the prompt next time, you won't have to
get in the way at all.
Cloud Code can now remind you to do
things, check on things proactively for
you, and work for days straight without
you ever touching it or needing to give
any input. So, here you can see I just
said, "Remind me at 10:23 a.m. to check
on my project." It goes ahead and uses a
cron create tool to set this reminder.
There we go. 10:23 just hit. I didn't
touch it and it just said, "Hey, Nate,
this is the reminder to check on your
project." So, just shot off this one
that says, "Every 10 minutes, check my
ClickUp to see if there's any new
developments on our project." It's using
the loop skill, as you can see, which is
a new built-in skill. And it creates a
cron for every single 10 minutes. And
now this would run for the next 3 days,
every 10 minutes until I told it not to.
And this doesn't have to be every 10
minutes. It could be every hour. It
could be every 5 minutes. It could be
whatever interval that you want. And
this is all thanks to the newly released
feature or skill loop, which is a
powerful new way to schedule recurring
tasks for up to 3 days at a time. And
this is so funny because less than 12
hours before this was announced, the
scheduled tasks include code was also
announced. So, right off the bat, those
two features might seem like they're the
exact same thing, but they're actually
super different in how they work, and
they have different use cases. So, in
today's video, I'm going to break all of
that down and tell you everything that
you need to know about it. And by the
way, if you haven't watched my new
scheduled tasks video, then check that
out right up here and then hop back over
to this one. All right, so as you guys
just saw in the quick demo, we now have
the ability to use loops, which means
that we could say something like /loop
every 5 minutes, check on the deploy, or
we could just say that in natural
language, which is awesome because it
invokes the loop skill and then it
creates that cron job right here in
cloud code. And you'll notice that this
is in my VS code. So this is available
in your terminal, in cloud code desktop
app, in VS Code extensions, wherever.
This is just a core part of cloud code
now. So if you're not seeing this, just
make sure you update your extension or
you update cloud code. And this lets you
set up loop intervals or reminders. So
reminders, like you saw that first demo,
I just said, "Hey, at this time, just
tell me this." And in that session, it
will bump up a message without you
triggering it. Or you could have them be
intervals. So you could say every 2
hours. You could say every 30 minutes.
Whatever you want that actual interval
to be. And what's cool about it is it
does it all in the same session. So if I
leave this session up, every 10 minutes,
it would check everything right here,
which means that it's able to
continuously read through what happened
in the past one, and it continuously
sees what we're doing. Now, obviously
there are some pros and cons there, but
just wanted to point that out. The major
con there being your context, making
sure that if something does go off every
10 minutes, you're not going to get a
huge report and then every 10 minutes
you just more tokens, more tokens, and
then context rot. It's basically
scheduling a prompt that you would be
sending in here and then firing off,
which means you can loop skills. So, if
you want every 20 minutes, for example,
run a skill called review PR, you could
tell it to every 20 minutes run the
skill. It would run it, it would wait 20
minutes, and then it would do it again.
And of course, you could use actual
slash commands to invoke both the loop
and the skill. Or you could just say,
"Every 20 minutes, run my review PR
skill." And of course, the onetime
reminder feature. So at 3 p.m. or in 45
minutes, remind me to do this or check
in on that. And Claude will basically
pin that time, it'll create that cron,
and then once it's done, it'll just
delete itself. So whether that's, hey,
at 4:30, remind me I have to go do this,
or every hour, remind me to just stand
up and like look away from my screen for
5 minutes, it can do that. All right.
All right. So, there's a couple things
that I wanted you guys to understand
about how this actually works. So, let's
just play around a little bit. Hey, at
10:40 a.m., can you please remind me to
take out the garbage? Cool. So, what
that's going to do is it's going to use
the cron create tool, and it's going to
create that basically schedule to remind
me take out the garbage. And what you
can see here is the actual prompt. So,
at this interval, which is just how cron
works, it's basically going to shoot a
prompt into this window that says remind
Nate to take out the garbage. You can
see the recurring equals false. Now, of
course, the key is if the session is
closed, then that cron is going to
automatically be killed. So, now
something interesting. I'm going to open
up a new session and I'm going to say,
"Hey, every hour, can you just remind me
I need to stretch my neck?" And I'm
going to shoot this one off. And we'll
see how this one is a little bit
different because this once again
creates a cron. We have a prompt. And
you can see in this one, we don't have
the recurring equals false. We just know
that this cron is going to go every
hour. But these loop jobs or task jobs
are per session. So these two tabs are
two different sessions. So if I came
into this session and said, "Can you
please tell me all of the scheduled loop
tasks that we have today?" It's going to
use a tool called cron list, and it only
can see the 10:40 a.m. take out the
garbage. It cannot see the task that
exists in this session because they're
independent and they're separate. Now,
one interesting thing to notice is that
this session didn't actually invoke the
loop tool. The loop tool basically tells
it how to set up cron jobs and how to
use the cron create. So if you don't see
loop, don't worry. It's still actually
doing this in a loop. It's just kind of
about the actual wording. So, if I was
to open a new one, let's see if I
actually call the loop tool right here.
So, I do loop and then I just say, you
know, um, check my ClickUp. This one is
going to default, I believe, to 10
minutes if you don't specify a time. And
it might invoke the loop skill because
we actually called it to, but looks like
it didn't because it knows exactly what
it needs to do already. So, the point
being, all that matters is that the cron
is being created. It doesn't always
matter if it invokes the loop skill or
not. And then if you wanted to cancel
one of these jobs, all you'd have to do
is either close out of the terminal or
just say, "Actually, I don't need this
anymore. Go ahead and cancel it." And
that one invokes a different cron skill
called cron delete, it shoots over the
job ID. And now that it's canceled and
one final thing to keep in mind is in VS
Code, if you close out of a tab and then
you just open up that conversation
again, that still will kill those crons.
So you guys just saw how pretty much all
of this worked. We have cron create to
schedule. We have cron list to list them
and then we have cron delete to cancel
them and all of those can be invoked
with natural language which is awesome.
So now let's get into some of the
limitations and then I'm going to
compare them to the actual scheduled
tasks feature. So the first big one is
that we have a 3-day loop expiry which
is just basically for safety. It auto
cleans things up if you forgot you had
all of these loops running. So once you
create a loop it basically has a 3-day
timer on it. It can run for day one. It
can run on day two and then on day three
it can run up until that last fire and
then it will autodee. And if you want
anything longer than 3 days, then you
would either just recreate that loop or
that probably indicates that you should
just turn this into a legitimate
scheduled task. Now, the other thing
that you can do is if you want to
completely disable scheduling, so maybe
in your natural prompting it's
accidentally creating all these crrons,
you could go into your environment
variables and just disable that and it
would probably be able to help you
figure that out. So the other things
here are that if you close the terminal,
your tasks are gone. It doesn't have
catchup. So the scheduled tasks, if you,
you know, opened up your desktop app and
you missed a bunch, it would catch up
automatically. This doesn't do that. And
there's no persistence, meaning after
your 3 days and you wanted to do that
same loop again. It would be a fresh
session. But obviously, there's tons of
things you can do here with context
management and reading different files
in order to kind of Frankenstein your
own fix there. So now that all the
features have been explained and you've
seen a demo, I think that probably you
understand the difference between the
loop and the schedule tasks a bit better
now. But let's just go over some of the
key highlights. The loop has your 3-day
expiry. It's all done within one session
and there's no catch-up. It's basically
a help me now or help me on this project
for today type of function. The schedule
tasks are dis stored. They're longived.
They have catchup and these are like
daily, weekly, monthly functions that
can run indefinitely. Of course, with
both of these though, the terminal or
you know the app has to be open and this
one is only currently available in the
desktop app. But I can imagine with how
fast Enthropic is shipping things, maybe
by the time you watch this video,
scheduled tasks are already out for the
terminal and extensions as well, the way
that loop is available in cloud code
everywhere. So basically, it's one
simple question. Do you need help right
now on a project or do you need help
with something every day or every week?
And that's how you decide if you use the
new loop feature or if you use scheduled
tasks. So I thought I'd end off real
quick by giving a few maybe practical
ways that you could actually use loop
rather than something scheduled. So
maybe all day you're waiting on a very
urgent email. Just set up Cloud Code to
check in on that email every 5 minutes
and if it's there, it can automatically
let you know. Maybe you're working on a
deploy and you want to just pull that
and check every, you know, hour or so if
everything's working okay. Maybe you've
got a deadline due at the end of the
week and you need a 3-day sprint to be
constantly checking in on the team and
checking in on progress. Maybe you're
testing and iterating. Maybe you're
watching logs. Maybe you're tracking
changes. There's so many different use
cases here. There's so many different
ways to use the loop to prompt an agent
to have different files, to use
different skills, and it's really,
really cool the way that you could
potentially set these things up. All
right, so now you guys understand the
routines, whether that is a local
routine or a cloud routine, you
understand how you can set them up.
You're basically turning a skill into a
schedule. You notice the pattern, you
identify the trigger, you map it to a
routine, and then you start to have more
of your cadence. And I'm going to talk
about this in a few more slides, so just
give me a sec. But there's other things
that you can start to do here as well.
you can start to visualize your system a
little bit. So, if I open up Obsidian
real quick, do you guys remember how I
talked about putting all of my YouTube
transcripts into my AIOS? So, it can
answer questions about them and it knows
what tools I've used and what videos
I've made and all that kind of stuff.
This is me just visualizing all of the
markdown files, all of my transcripts.
And I've used sort of like this Carpathy
LLM wiki idea to be able to visualize
this and to be able to see connections
between every video, every tool, how
they're referenced, how they relate to
each other. And it's really, really cool
for me to be able to visualize it. Now,
Obsidian giving me this visual layer
doesn't change anything fundamentally
about how my AIOS actually uses the data
and is able to look at it and talk to it
and edit it. But sometimes it is nice to
be able to have that visual layer on top
of it. So, if you guys are interested in
figuring out how you can turn all of
your business context, all of your, you
know, meeting transcripts, all of your
YouTube video transcripts into a visual
thing like this using the LLM wiki, then
I'm going to head into a video right
here where I explain exactly how to set
this up. If you're not interested, just
skip past this part of the video. But if
you are, go ahead and give it a watch.
What you're looking at right here is 36
of my most recent YouTube videos
organized into an actual knowledge
system that makes sense. And in today's
video, I'm going to show you how you can
set this up in 5 minutes. It's super
super easy. You can see here how we have
these different nodes and different
patterns emerging. And as we zoom in, we
can see what each of these little dots
represents. So, for example, this is one
of my videos, $10,000 aentic workflows.
We can see it's got some tags, it's got
the video link, it's got the raw file,
and it gives an explanation of what this
video is about and what the takeaways
are. And the coolest part is I can
follow the back links to get where I
want. There's a backlink for the WAT
framework. There's a backlink for Claude
Code. There's a backlink for all these
different tools I mentioned like
perplexity, visual studio code, nano
banana, nadn. It also has techniques
like the wt framework or bypass
permissions mode or human review
checkpoint. So as this continues to fill
up, we can start to see patterns and
relationships between every tool or
every skill or every MCP server that I
might have talked about in a YouTube
video and I can just query it in a
really efficient way now that we have
this actual system set up. And the crazy
part is I said, "Hey, Cloud Code, go
grab the transcripts from my recent
videos and organize everything." I
literally didn't have to do any manual
relationship building here. It just
figured it all out on its own. And then
right here, I have a much smaller one,
but this is more of my personal brain.
So, this is stuff going on in my
personal life. This is stuff going on
with, you know, Up AI or my YouTube
channel or my different businesses and
my employees and our quarter 2
initiatives and things like that. This
is more of my own second brain. So, I've
got one second brain here, and then I've
got one basically YouTube knowledge
system, and I could combine these, or I
could keep them separate, and I can just
keep building more knowledge systems and
plug them all into other AI agents that
I need to have this context. It's just
super cool. So, Andre Carpathy just
released this little post about LLM
knowledge bases and explaining what he's
been doing with them. And in just a
matter of few days, it got a ton of
traction on X. So, let's do a quick
breakdown and then I'm going to show you
guys how you can get this set up in
basically 5 minutes. It's way more
simple than you may think. Something
I've been finding very useful recently
is using LLM to build personal knowledge
bases for various topics of research
interest. So there's different stages.
The first part is data ingest. He puts
in basically source documents. So he
basically takes a PDF and puts it into
cloud code and then cloud code does the
rest. He uses Obsidian as the IDE. So
this is nothing really too gamechanging.
Obsidian just lets you visually see your
markdown files. But for example, this
Obsidian project right here with all
this YouTube transcript stuff that
actually lives right here. This is the
exact same thing. and here are the raw
YouTube transcripts and here's that wiki
that I showed you guys with the
different um folders for what Cloud Code
did with my YouTube transcripts. And
then there's a Q&A phase where you
basically can ask questions about
YouTube or about the research and it can
look through the entire wiki in a much
more efficient way and it can give you
answers that are super intelligent. He
said here, "I thought that I had to
reach for fancy rag, but the LLM has
been pretty good about automaintaining
index files and brief summaries of all
documents, and it reads all the
important related data fairly easily at
this small scale. So, right now he's
doing about 100 articles and about half
a million words. So, there's a few other
things that we'll cover later, but the
TLDDR is you give raw data to cloud
code. It compares it, it organizes it,
and then it puts it into the right spots
with relationships, and then you can
query it about anything. And it can help
you identify where there's gaps in that
node or in that you know relationship
and it can go do research and fill in
the gaps. All right. So why is this a
big deal? Because normal AI chats are
ephemeral meaning the knowledge
disappears after the conversation. But
this method using Karpathy's LLM wiki
makes knowledge compound like interest
in a bank. People on X are calling it a
game changanger because it finally makes
AI feel like a tireless colleague who
actually remembers everything and it
stays organized. It's also super simple.
It will take you 5 minutes to set up.
I'll show you guys. You don't need a
fancy vector database embeddings or
complex infrastructure. It's literally
just a folder with markdown files.
That's it. You literally just have a
vault up top. So in this example, it's
called my wiki. You've got a raw folder
where you put all of the stuff. And then
you've got a wiki folder, which is what
the LLM takes from your raw and puts it
into the wiki. So in here, you have all
the wiki pages which it will create. But
then you also have an index and you have
a log. So for example, in my YouTube
transcripts vault, here is the index.
You can see that I have all these
different tools which I could obviously
click on and it would take me right to
that page or after that I have all the
different techniques agent teams sub
agents permission modes the WAT
framework and then we've got different
concepts MCP servers rag vibe coding
we've got all these different sources
which are you know the YouTube videos
and then when I have people or when I
have comparisons they will be put in
here in the index and then we also have
a log which is the operation history so
in this case in the YouTube project the
log isn't huge cuz I only ran one huge
batch of the initial 36 YouTube videos,
but now every time I have one, I say,
"Hey, can you go ahead and ingest the
new YouTube video into the wiki and then
we'll see every single time we update
this." And then, of course, you need
your claw.md to explain how the project
works and how to search through things
and how to, you know, update things.
It's also a big deal from a cost
perspective, token efficiency, and
long-term value. One X user turned 383
scattered files and over a 100 meeting
transcripts into a compact wiki and
dropped token usage by 95% when querying
with Claude. And obviously token
management and efficiency is a huge
conversation right now and will always
be. The other thing that's really cool
about this is there's not really like a
GitHub repo you go copy or there's not a
complicated setup. You literally just
say hey cloud code read this idea from
Andre Karpathy and implement it. And
people on X are now talking about like
this is how 2026 AI agentic software and
products will be made. You just give it
a highle idea and it goes and builds it
out. And Karpathy even said, "Hey, you
know, I left this prompt vague so that
you guys can customize it." And I'll
show you the ways in my two different
vaults right now that it changed things
a little bit based on the context and
understanding of what the project is
actually for. Okay, so this was the
original tweet I just showed you guys
and then he followed up and said, "Hey,
this one went viral. So here is the idea
in a gist format." So if you open this
up, this is basically just another
explanation of the core idea of how this
works and why the architecture indexing
all this kind of stuff. And by the way,
this is the part where he says, "Hey,
this is left vague so that you can hack
it and customize it to your own
project." So we're going to come right
back to this in a sec, but the first
prerec that we're going to do, it's not
necessary, but I like to have a nice
little front end to see the
relationships is we're going to go to
Obsidian and download it. So, if you
just go to obsidian.mmd, you can see
this is the completely free tool and
you're going to go ahead and download
it. So, just for your operating system,
download this and then open up the
wizard and open up the app. So, when you
open up the app, it'll look like this.
And what we're going to do here is we're
going to create a new vault. So, down
here, you can see I have Herkbrain and I
have YouTube transcripts. I'll just make
it a little bigger. I'm going to go to
manage vaults. I'm going to create a new
one. And now, we just have to give this
a name. So, I'm just going to call this
one demo vault. and you're going to
choose a location where you want to put
this. So, I'm just throwing this on my
desktop and I'm going to go ahead and
create this vault. Then, what you're
going to do is go to wherever you like
to run Cloud Code. So, in this case, I'm
doing it in VS Code. And I open up that
folder. So, demo vault. We get an
Obsidian and then we get a welcome.md.
So, I'm going to open up Claude. So, I'm
going to do it in my terminal. I'm going
to run Claude. And lately, I've been
liking using my terminal better for
Claude. I like to do it inside of VS
Code, but the reason is just because I
like to see the status line and I have,
you know, a little bit more
functionality. So, anyways, now that we
have Cloud Code open, here's what we're
going to do. We're going to go back over
to the LLM wiki thing that we got from
Andre Carpathy. We're going to copy all
of this and we're going to go back into
Cloud Code and then just paste it in
there. So, that is the prompt from
Carpathy that's going to build out
everything we need. And then before we
send that off, we're dropping this in
which you guys can screenshot and then
just throw into yours. But I'm saying
you are now my LLM wiki agent. Implement
this exact idea file as my complete
second brain. Guide me step by step.
Create the cloudmd schema blah blah
blah. So this is just telling it what it
needs to do with this idea that we just
got from Kapathy. So anyways, on the
right we have this cloud code running
and on the left we have our obsidian
vault and you can see it just created
those two folders. So it created the raw
and it created the wiki as you can see.
Now, by default, it threw in four
folders. It threw in analysis, concepts,
entities, and sources. Once we start to
populate stuff, we can talk to it to see
if that's actually the way we want to do
it or not. Because it's interesting in
my personal kind of second brain, the
wiki is literally just markdown files.
There's no structure to it. And in some
cases, that's good. Carpathy actually
said, "Sometimes I like to keep it
really simple and really flat, which
means like no subfolders and not a bunch
of over organizing." But then you guys
did see in my YouTube transcript one,
there were different subfolders. And I
think that in this case it actually
makes more sense. But you can see that
it went ahead and it created a claw.md.
It created an index and a log and then a
few different folders in our wiki. But
now it's saying, "Hey, let's go ahead
and try it out. Drop in your first
source into the raw folder and tell me
to ingest it." Okay, so I'm at this
website called AI2027. If you guys
haven't read this before, it's kind of
an interesting read. So go check it out.
And now let's say I want to get this
into my vault. What I could do is just
copy the whole page, right? And it might
just come through a little weird. or we
can just get an Obsidian extension which
lets us basically take articles right
from the web and just put it right into
our vault. Super easy. So search for
this extension called Obsidian Web
Clipper. You would go ahead and add this
to Chrome. So then when you're in the
article that you want, you basically
just click on your extensions, you open
up Obsidian Web Clipper, and then you
can just chuck it into your vault. And
then right here, you're going to want to
set this to RAW because this is the
actual folder that it's going to put it
in. So you can go ahead and click add to
Obsidian. Open Obsidian. And then now
you can see in my raw section we have
this AI 2027 source with the title the
source and it's not super super
populated yet because the LLM in cloud
code is going to do that. So here is our
file. I'm going to open up cloud code
and say awesome. I just threw in an
article called AI 2027 into the raw. Can
you please go ahead and ingest that? It
might ask you some questions. It might
also be helpful to before you start
ingesting stuff say hey by the way this
project is specifically for my second
brain. So, personal things, business
things, whatever. Or this is just a
research project. This is where I'm
going to chuck you all the articles and
all the things that I want to learn
about and all the things that I know.
So, there's different ways that you can
set up the project as you saw with mine.
One for YouTube, one for just personal
second brain. So, now what it's doing is
it's going to read through this article
and then it's going to figure out where
should I chuck everything into the wiki.
It's not just going to create one MD
file for this. It might create five or
it might create 10. And there's going to
be relationships between each of the
different sections that it creates. So,
it's kind of doing its own method of
chunking. Now, one thing I want to call
out real quick is with this extension,
if you go here and you open up the
options for it, you can see that you can
actually change where by default the
folders are dropped, which is in the
location section. By default, it'll be
going to a place called clippings, but
just go ahead and change that to raw.
Okay. So, here it came back with all
these questions, right? It said, "Here
are my key takeaways from this article,
blah blah blah." And now it'll ask you,
"What do you want to emphasize from this
article? What's your focus? How granular
do you want to be? what's your plan? So,
I'm just going to say I want this to be
extremely thorough. This is my passion
looking at where AI is going to go. Um,
and this whole project, by the way, that
you're setting up in this vault is
basically just going to be my place to
dump in research about AI. So, help me
keep all that organized so that I can
query it and that I can, you know, keep
my thoughts related. So, that's just a
quick example of what it might look like
for you to give it some more context to
continuously build your project. So, I'm
going to switch over over here to the
graph view because I think it it'll be
interesting to see as it is starting to
go through and create those different
wiki files. It's going to go ahead and
it's going to create all those
relationships and we'll be able to watch
it in real time. All right, so it's
creating all of the wiki pages now and
you can see that it said it's going to
make about 25 because there's so much
stuff going on in the original AI 2027
article. Okay, so our first one just
popped in here and there a second one
just came through and now you can
understand you're starting to see where
do you have hubs or where do you just
have little individual nodes? So this is
a major hub someone named Eli someone
named Thomas Daniel and you can see all
the different relationships here with
things like AI governance with things
like open brain superhuman coder. Okay
so that ingest took about 10 minutes. So
sometimes you have to be a little
patient with you know it reading through
everything and organizing everything but
it does a lot of heavy lifting of
course. When I uploaded the 36 YouTube
transcripts in batch it took about 14
minutes. So it kind of just depends but
it created 23 wiki pages. We have the
source. We have six people, five
organizations and one AI systems page,
different concepts, so technical
alignment and geopolitical and then an
analysis and then it asks some questions
about it so that it can help make the
relationships and make the structure
even better. Now let's just open this
one up a little bit deeper and see what
it actually did in here with this stuff.
So we have this is the source with all
the main relationships. So as we start
to add other articles, we will see other
big kind of like nodes and maybe in some
cases we'll have relationships between
like compute scaling with different
articles that we upload as well. So
let's just see if I click into the main
source, we can see the tags that it got.
We can see the authors and we can click
around. So here's a link to OpenAI.
Okay, what's OpenAI? Here's references
in AI 2027. Here's some other
connections with OpenAI like modelsp
spec. Okay, we're in model spec. Let's
take a look. We can see other things
about modelsp spec. And we could also go
to how the LLM psychology model works.
So this is just super super cool all the
relationships that we get. And once
again, all of this stuff that we're
looking at was derived from one article
and automatically organized and related.
So the question now is like what do we
do from here? Do we query it inside of
this environment? Do we query it from
somewhere else? And that's completely up
to the way that you want to use this. So
for example, with my YouTube project,
I'm probably just going to keep this
here. And whenever I want to ask
questions about YouTube or if I want to
turn this into like a website, I can
just do that from here. Or if I need to,
I can point a different project at this
folder since everything's here and it
can crawl through the wiki, it can read
the index and it knows how this stuff
works because you can give it the clawmd
so it understands the project as well.
So for example in this one which is just
my second brain where we have all of the
different things about like I drop in my
meeting recordings, I drop in, you know,
ClickUp channels, summaries and things
like that. This is something that I want
to use in my executive assistant. So
what I did in my executive assistant
here called Herk 2. If I go to this
cloud.MD, MD. You can see that we have a
wiki path. So, whenever you need to read
things about me and my business that you
don't have already, you would basically
go to my Herkb brain vault. You would go
to that directory and then you would
read through the wiki. You can read the
hot cache, which I'll explain in just a
sec. You can read the index. You can
read the domain subindex. And then you
can also just search through everything
here. And I said don't read from the
wiki unless you actually need it. Here
are some things that you might do that
you don't need to go read the wiki for.
And all of this is my business
knowledge. Now, if you guys remember, if
you watched my video on setting up an
executive assistant, I used to do this
with context files inside of this
project. And when I changed over to this
method, I actually saw a reduction in
tokens that I was actually calling in
this project. So, the thing about the
hot cache, right, I didn't actually have
this in my YouTube one. So, if I go to
YouTube, you can see there's no hot
cache. But, if I go to the herk brain in
the wiki, you can see there's a hot.md
right here. And this is basically just a
cache of like 500 words or 500
characters that it saves, which is like
what is the most recent thing that Nate
just gave me or that we talked about. In
the context of my executive assistant,
this is really helpful. You know, it
might save me from having to crawl
different wiki pages. But in something
like the YouTube transcript project, I
don't really need a hot cache. So,
another thing that I alluded to but
didn't really cover was the idea of
linting. So, Karpathi says that he runs
some LLM health checks over the wiki to
find inconsistent data, impute missing
data with web searches, find interesting
connections for new article candidates,
things like that. So, it basically helps
you run a lint, you know, every day,
every week, whenever you want, which
helps make sure that everything is
scalable and structured in the right
way. And it might even come back and
say, "Hey, I don't fully understand
this. Can you give me some more info or
can you grab some more articles that
might help me out here?" So now the
final question about this that I wanted
to cover is like does this kill semantic
search rag? And the answer is no, but
kind of yes. And it all depends on the
goal of the project and the goal of the
context, how much context you have. So
here's a really quick chart that I had
my cloud code make. I was in my Herk
brain where I dumped in a bunch of
information about Karpathy's LLM
knowledge and I just said, "Hey, can you
please explain Karpathy knowledge as
simple as possible, keep it super
concise and um compare it to typical
semantic search rag." So, it found
Karpathy's idea. Instead of a database,
you just give the LM well organized
markdown files and it compares it here
to the actual semantic search rag. So,
actually, I might as well just read it
off from here. So it finds it by reading
indexes and follows links rather than
using similarity search. So we're
getting a deeper understanding of
relationships because they're links
rather than just saying, "Hey, these
chunks seem similar." As far as
infrastructure, it is literally just
markdown. So like I said, you don't even
need the obsidian. You just need these
markdown files. Whereas with semantic
search, you need an embedding model. You
need a vector database and a chunking
pipeline. The cost over here is
basically free. Your only cost is going
to be tokens. Whereas over here, you
might have ongoing compute and storage.
And for maintenance, you just run a
lint. You clean up things. You add more
articles. You give it more context
rather than having to re-mbed when
things change. But right now, the
weakness of course with the uh LLM
knowledge wiki is that it doesn't scale
huge across enterprises, right? Because
it's just a bunch of files. Um and that
is where the cost will probably get more
and more expensive than going to
something like standard semantic search
or knowledger graph or light rag or
whatever other tool is out there for
that. So here you can see if you have
hundreds of pages with good indexes,
you're fine with wiki graph. But if you
were getting up to the millions of
documents, then you're going to want to
actually do more of a traditional rag
pipeline. At least for now with how the
current models are and everything we
know right now in April 2026. Okay,
awesome. So that was Obsidian stuff. Now
let's talk about what else you could do
with clawed artifacts because you have
all of these different connections,
right? You're at this point now where
you have a bunch of stuff hooked up. So
you could have, you know, your school
dashboard hooked up, your Stripe
information, your YouTube stuff, your
ClickUp tasks, but what if you want to
be able to have a visual place to see
that stuff? Because, you know, once
again, we now have potentially a
visualization of our data, or sorry, not
our data, but like our knowledge. But
what if we want a visualization of our
data? Well, you could go ahead and
custom build all of this. But the first
step, I think, would just be to leverage
cloud artifacts and see what you can
already do. So once again, I'm in the
desktop app. I'm going to go to co-work,
which is the middle section, and I'm
going to click on live artifacts. And
you can see here that I've got three
different dashboards here. I've got a
Fireflies dashboard, I've got a weekly
commitments dashboard, and I've got a
QuickBooks dashboard. So, for example,
I'm going to click on the QuickBooks
dashboard. I'm not going to show you
guys this data obviously, but what this
does is as soon as I open up this
dashboard, it makes a call to QuickBooks
and it starts to pull in this data and
populate it with real analytics. And so
now I have this really simple place in
my clawed environment where I can
actually see our revenue, our expenses,
our net profit, our cash on hand. I can
see the trends. I can even get an AI
breakdown of our runway and it's looking
forward and it's doing a bit of a, you
know, financial analysis. I can see all
of this information right here. I could
also do this for my weekly commitments.
So I'm looking right now, this is
pulling data from ClickUp and it's
organizing it to show me tasks,
completion percentage, what's at risk,
who I might need to follow up with. So
once again, it's just another way for me
to visualize all of this data. And you
can set them up with artifacts super
super quickly. You just come into Cloud
Co-work. You would click on new
artifact. And this basically just starts
a new conversation with Claude and it
says, "Okay, hey, let's build you a
dashboard. What do you want to see? What
MCP servers can we connect to? What
other connectors do we have access to?
Let's build you a visualization." Now,
that is really nice, but it's not
perfect. And ultimately where you might
want to go is using Cloud Code to build
you an actual dashboard that not only
just has like, okay, your QuickBooks is
this one and your ClickUp is this one,
but maybe you want a dashboard to see
everything because if you have all these
connectors, wouldn't it be great to just
have one dashboard for your business
where you could look at all this stuff?
Yeah, it would be great, but it requires
a little bit more configuration because
obviously you have to sync all the data,
but then you have to build some sort of
refresh cadence. Maybe you want every
single night all of that data to
refresh. Maybe you want it to refresh
every 25 minutes. You would have to
build out that logic and you would have
to build it up as a routine or you would
have to put that on something like
trigger.dev or modal. So there's just a
little bit more of, you know,
complexity. There's more moving pieces,
but it's definitely doable. And so the
reason why I recommend starting with
artifacts is because artifacts you can
spin up in 5 minutes. And if you spin up
an artifact and then you realize, "Wow,
I didn't even check this all week." Then
why would you have went through all the
effort to build your own custom
dashboard? You know, maybe you build an
artifact and you're like, "Wow, I
actually check this every, you know, I
check this four times a day. I should
probably build my own custom one." Then
you know, so another one of Nate's
mindset shifts is P. What does PC mean?
Proof of concept. You want to build
something that's super easy and it's
lightweight enough that it proves yes or
no. Don't waste time. Don't waste money
investing into something that might not
be proven yet. So prove the concept
first. Lightweight, cheap, build a cloud
artifact. If you like it, if the concept
is proven, then you can dedicate some
more resources towards building a custom
solution. Because honestly, what I've
realized is I don't really need that
much data visualization, at least in in
that sense, because of the fact that I
can just message my assistant and I can
get answers instantly. And if I ever
want to generate trends and I want to
see what's going on, I just say, "Hey,
can you pull data from these five
sources from the past month and generate
me a dashboard or generate me a report
because that way I'm able to get stuff
when I need it on demand rather than
having to spend time building and
maintaining some sort of dashboard. All
right, so now let's say we're at a
really good spot. We've got a bunch of
context. We've got a bunch of
connections. We've got a ton of
capabilities and cadence. What does it
look like on the dayto-day and on the
week to week? Well, first of all,
obviously trying to do as much work as
you can just in cloud code and not
leaving and switching between different
tabs and context switching. But on top
of that, let's talk about the daily
loop. So, what I would start to do is
every morning go into cloud code and
say, "Hey, help me plan my day." If it's
helping you plan your day in a really
good way, meaning it can look at your
priorities and look through messages and
look through your calendar, that's
really good. Keep doing that. But if it
doesn't, note down why not. What might
it be missing? What context might it
need in order to plan your day better?
And then at the end of the day, look
back at it. What skills did you use
today? What did you have to correct your
assistant on? What did you have to, you
know, copy and paste in? And then
tomorrow, you can sort of patch some of
that stuff up and just make small
iterations as you go. And then on the
week to week, of course, you can use the
audit. Maybe every single Friday, you
run an audit and you see what you need
to do. Think about how many skills got
used. Think about which ones got used
daily. If they're getting used so often,
why not just automate them? And the
other thing to think about is sometimes
when you actually decide, I need to
build an automation, it might be
overkill to go with an agentic skill.
What you might actually need is more of
a boring is beautiful workflow
automation because workflows,
deterministic workflows, beat AI agents
nine times out of 10. Most of the stuff
that we were doing for businesses were
just automations. We barely even used AI
sometimes. And hardly did we ever give
them like a fully autonomous AI agent.
It just truly wasn't needed for most
business processes, especially
especially when you start to actually
break them down by task. You know,
automate one chunk at a time and you'll
realize how little AI and how little
autonomy is actually needed for each
individual chunk of a process. And if
you do get to that point where you want
to be able to build something that is
more of a regular Python script or more
of a deterministic automation then then
basically just ask cloud code to help
you build that and then you can say hey
I need to push this into trigger or
modal so that it can actually run 24/7.
It's really really easy. It literally
just takes that natural language in
order to actually do. So let's talk
about some of the success criteria that
I think about when I try to understand
is my AIOS actually providing me value
and is it working? And I wanted to call
these KPIs, but I didn't because KPIs
usually indicate that there's something
objective. There's an objective metric
that you're looking for. And we're not
looking for really objective metrics
here. We're just looking for kind of
subjective success criteria. So the
first thing is that your team could
reach out to the AIOS. Meaning
ultimately it'd be great if they could
just message your AI OS instead of you
because if the AIOS knows more info than
you or has better memory than you and
can pull the exact source and it never
sleeps, it would actually be more
efficient for people to message that
instead of you. And I started to realize
when someone would ask me a question, I
would take their question and I would
just paste it into my AIOS and then
paste the answer back to them because
once again, my AIOS had more data than I
did. Number two is that you stop opening
new tabs. You don't have thousands of
browser tabs open. You don't have
thousands of desktop apps open because
you're doing as much of your work as
possible right from cloud code itself.
Number three is that knowledge leaves
your head. So you stop having to worry
so much about all these little things
you have to remember. You stop having a
million post-it notes everywhere. You
just have all of your knowledge inside
of your system. It can send you
reminders. It can make sure you're not
losing track of things. And it helps you
out in that way. And honestly, it can
get rid of a lot of your stress. And if
even just two out of three of these
things are true within the first month,
then it definitely took and you're
definitely starting to get that
exponential growth from building an
AIOS. And once again, just wanted to hit
this one more time. This is personal.
Like the whole point of me building this
course was for your personal gain, for
your personal productivity. It's great
to be able to think about, okay, my
whole team needs to adopt this or I want
to start teaching other people how to do
this. That's great. But you have to
start with yourself. You can't scale a
system if you haven't lived in it
yourself. You can't help your team
connect to all these different data
sources if you haven't connected to them
yourself. And once you've set up your
own personal AIOS, your whole company
can start to build around your AIOS. A
company where every operator runs a
personal AIOS is a company that is truly
AI ready and all the data is AI ready.
Because think about it, if I didn't
realize that I needed to do everything
through my Google Workspace, then I
wouldn't have realized the benefit of
having a shared drive and I wouldn't
have been able to communicate to
everyone else to use GWS CLI to get all
of their stuff into the shared drive and
organized. And now all of us are
benefiting from that. All right, so I've
been standing here yapping at you guys
for way too long now. Um, I really hope
you guys enjoyed. I hope that this gave
you some structure and it got you really
excited about what you can actually do
and where you can take this thing. If
you don't have a current voice to text
tool, please go download Glyo. I
actually see a future very soon where we
have more of a voice OS where I could
throw away my mouse and keyboard and I
could just talk to Claude Code inside of
my AOS. So, I've got my voice OS feeding
into my AIOS and I'm literally just
sitting here, you know, I'm just laying
in bed talking all day and work is
getting done. So, if you want to support
and if you need a voice tool, check out
Glido. Link is in the description. But
that is going to do it for today. I
really hope you guys enjoyed. And now
that you're set up in an environment
where you're using cloud code way more
hopefully, you're going to need to
really start to think about context
management. So, I'm going to highly
recommend you check out this video next
where I talk about how to make sure
you're not hitting your session limit
super super quick. And I'll see you guys
over there. As always, thanks for making
it to the end of the video and see you
in the next one. Thanks everyone.